.TH SBCAST "1" "April 2006" "sexec 1.1" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sexec \- Execute programs with arguments that are controlled by 
a configuration file. The program and argument executed will 
depend upon the SLURM task ID. 

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsexec\fR CONFIG

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsexec\fR is used to execute different programs with different 
arguments for each SLURM task.
\fBCONFIG\fR is the name of a file containing \fBsexec\fR
configuration specifications.

.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE"

Comments in the configuration file must have a "#" in collumn one.
The configuration file contains the following fields separated by white
space:
.TP
Task rank
One or more task ranks to use this configuration. 
Multiple values may be comma separated.
Ranges may be indicated with two numbers separated with a '\-'.
.TP
Executable
The name of the program to execute.
May be fully qualified pathname if desired.
.TP
Arguments
Program arguments. 
The expression "%t" will be replaced with the task's number.
The expression "%o" will be replaced with the task's offset within 
this range (e.g. a configured task rank value of "1-5" would 
have offset values of "0-4").
Single quotes may be used to avoid having the enclosed values interpretted.
This field is optional.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.nf
###################################################################
# sexec configuration file
# Run master as task 0
# Run slaves as tasks 1-16 with their relative rank as the argument
#
# srun -n17 sexec sexec.conf
###################################################################
0          master
1-16       slave    %o
.fi

.nf
###################################################################
# sexec configuration file
# A silly example of a configuration file
#
# srun -n8 -l sexec silly.conf
###################################################################
0,4-6     hostname
1,7       echo  task:%t
2-3       echo  offset:%o
.fi


.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-217948.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsrun\fR(1)
