.TH "salloc" "1" "SLURM 1.4" "November 2008" "SLURM Commands"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
salloc \- Obtain a SLURM job allocation (a set of nodes), execute a command, 
and then release the allocation when the command is finished.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
salloc [\fIoptions\fP] [<\fIcommand\fP> [\fIcommand args\fR]]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
salloc is used to allocate a SLURM job allocation, which is a set of resources 
(nodes), possibly with some set of constraints (e.g. number of processors per 
node).  When salloc successfully obtains the requested allocation, it then runs 
the command specified by the user.  Finally, when the user specified command is 
complete, salloc relinquishes the job allocation.

The command may be any program the user wishes.  Some typical commands are 
xterm, a shell script containing srun commands, and srun (see the EXAMPLES 
section). If no command is specified, then the value of 
\fBSallocDefaultCommand\fR in slurm.conf is used. If 
\fBSallocDefaultCommand\fR is not set, then \fBsalloc\fR runs the 
user's default shell.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP
\fB\-\-acctg\-freq\fR=\fIseconds\fR
Define the job accounting sampling interval.
This can be used to override the \fIJobAcctGatherFrequency\fR parameter in SLURM's
configuration file, \fIslurm.conf\fR.
A value of zero disables real the periodic job sampling and provides accounting
information only on job termination (reducing SLURM interference with the job).

.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fB\-\-extra\-node\-info\fR=\fIsockets\fR[:\fIcores\fR[:\fIthreads\fR]]
Request a specific allocation of resources with details as to the
number and type of computational resources within a cluster:
number of sockets (or physical processors) per node,
cores per socket, and threads per core.
The total amount of resources being requested is the product of all of
the terms.
As with \-\-nodes, each value can be a single number or a range (e.g. min\-max).
An asterisk (*) can be used as a placeholder indicating that all available
resources of that type are to be utilized.
As with nodes, the individual levels can also be specified in separate
options if desired:
.nf
    \fB\-\-sockets\-per\-node\fR=\fIsockets\fR
    \fB\-\-cores\-per\-socket\fR=\fIcores\fR
    \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR=\fIthreads\fR
.fi
When the task/affinity plugin is enabled,
specifying an allocation in this manner also instructs SLURM to use
a CPU affinity mask to guarantee the request is filled as specified.
NOTE: Support for these options are configuration dependent. 
The task/affinity plugin must be configured.
In addition either select/linear or select/cons_res plugin must be 
configured.
If select/cons_res is configured, it must have a parameter of CR_Core, 
CR_Core_Memory, CR_Socket, or CR_Socket_Memory. 

.TP
\fB\-\-begin\fR[=]<\fItime\fR>
Submit the batch script to the SLURM controller immediately, like normal, but
tell the controller to defer the allocation of the job until the specified time.

Time may be of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR to run a job at
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
(If that time is already past, the next day is assumed.)
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, or
\fIteatime\fR (4pm) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for running in the morning or the evening.
You can also say what day the job will be run, by specifying
a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR
or \fIMM.DD.YY\fR. You can also
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR, \fIdays\fR, or \fIweeks\fR
and you can tell SLURM to run the job today with the keyword
\fItoday\fR and to run the job tomorrow with the keyword
\fItomorrow\fR.
The value may be changed after job submission using the
\fBscontrol\fR command.

.TP 
\fB\-\-bell\fR
Force salloc to ring the terminal bell when the job allocation is granted
(and only if stdout is a tty).  By default, salloc only rings the bell
if the allocation is pending for more than ten seconds (and only if stdout
is a tty). Also see the option \fB\-\-no\-bell\fR.

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-constraint\fR[=]<\fIlist\fR>
Specify a list of constraints. 
The constraints are features that have been assigned to the nodes by 
the slurm administrator. 
The \fIlist\fR of constraints may include multiple features separated 
by ampersand (AND) and/or vertical bar (OR) operators.
For example: \fB\-\-constraint="opteron&video"\fR or 
\fB\-\-constraint="fast|faster"\fR.
In the first example, only nodes having both the feature "opteron" AND
the feature "video" will be used.
There is no mechanism to specify that you want one node with feature
"opteron" and another node with feature "video" in that case that no
node has both features.
If only one of a set of possible options should be used for all allocated 
nodes, then use the OR operator and enclose the options within square brackets. 
For example: "\fB\-\-constraint="[rack1|rack2|rack3|rack4]"\fR might 
be used to specify that all nodes must be allocated on a single rack of 
the cluster, but any of those four racks can be used.
A request can also specify the number of nodes needed with some feature
by appending an asterisk and count after the feature name. 
For example "\fBsalloc \-\-nodes=16 \-\-constraint=graphics*4 ..."\fR 
indicates that the job requires 16 nodes at that at least four of those
nodes must have the feature "graphics."
Constraints with node counts may only be combined with AND operators.
If no nodes have the requested features, then the job will be rejected 
by the slurm job manager.

.TP
\fB\-\-comment\fR=<\fIstring\fR>
An arbitrary comment.

.TP
\fB\-\-contiguous\fR
Demand a contiguous range of nodes. The default is "yes". Specify
\-\-contiguous=no if a contiguous range of nodes is not required.

.TP
\fB\-\-cpu_bind\fR=[{\fIquiet,verbose\fR},]\fItype\fR
Bind tasks to CPUs. Used only when the task/affinity plugin is enabled.
The configuration parameter \fBTaskPluginParam\fR may override these options.

The \fBSLURM_CPU_BIND\fR environment variables are set when \fB\-\-cpu_bind\fR \
is in use.

When using \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR to run multithreaded tasks, be aware that
CPU binding is inherited from the parent of the process.  This means that
the multithreaded task should either specify or clear the CPU binding
itself to avoid having all threads of the multithreaded task use the same
mask/CPU as the parent.  Alternatively, fat masks (masks which specify more 
than one allowed CPU) could be used for the tasks in order to provide
multiple CPUs for the multithreaded tasks.

Supported options include:
.PD 1
.RS
.TP
.B q[uiet]
quietly bind before task runs (default)
.TP
.B v[erbose]
verbosely report binding before task runs
.TP
.B no[ne]
don't bind tasks to CPUs (default)
.TP
.B rank
bind by task rank
.TP
.B map_cpu:<list>
bind by mapping CPU IDs to tasks as specified
where <list> is <cpuid1>,<cpuid2>,...<cpuidN>.
CPU IDs are interpreted as decimal values unless they are preceded
with '0x' in which case they interpreted as hexadecimal values.
.TP
.B mask_cpu:<list>
bind by setting CPU masks on tasks as specified
where <list> is <mask1>,<mask2>,...<maskN>.
CPU masks are \fBalways\fR interpreted as hexadecimal values but can be
preceded with an optional '0x'.
.TP
.B sockets
auto\-generated masks bind to sockets
.TP
.B cores
auto\-generated masks bind to cores
.TP
.B threads
auto\-generated masks bind to threads
.TP
.B help
show this help message
.RE

.TP 
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR[=]<\fIncpus\fR>
Advise the SLURM controller that ensuing job steps will require \fIncpus\fR 
number of processors per task.  Without this option, the controller will
just try to allocate one processor per task.

For instance,
consider an application that has 4 tasks, each requiring 3 processors.  If our
cluster is comprised of quad\-processors nodes and we simply ask for
12 processors, the controller might give us only 3 nodes.  However, by using
the \-\-cpus\-per\-task=3 options, the controller knows that each task requires
3 processors on the same node, and the controller will grant an allocation
of 4 nodes, one for each of the 4 tasks.

.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-chdir\fR=\fIpath\fR
change directory to \fIpath\fR before beginning execution. 

.TP
\fB\-\-exclusive\fR
The job allocation cannot share nodes with other running jobs.  This is
the oposite of \-\-share, whichever option is seen last on the command line
will win.  (The default shared/exclusive behaviour depends on system
configuration.)

.TP 
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-nodefile\fR[=]<\fInode file\fR>
Much like \-\-nodelist, but the list is contained in a file of name
\fInode file\fR.  The node names of the list may also span multiple lines
in the file.    Duplicate node names in the file will be ignored.
The order of the node names in the list is not important; the node names
will be sorted my SLURM.

.TP
\fB\-\-get\-user\-env\fR[=\fItimeout\fR][\fImode\fR]
This option will load login environment variables for the user specified 
in the \fB\-\-uid\fR option.
The environment variables are retrieved by running something of this sort
"su \- <username> \-c /usr/bin/env" and parsing the output.  
Be aware that any environment variables already set in salloc's environment 
will take precedence over any environment variables in the user's 
login environment.
The optional \fItimeout\fR value is in seconds. Default value is 3 seconds.
The optional \fImode\fR value control the "su" options.
With a \fImode\fR value of "S", "su" is executed without the "\-" option.
With a \fImode\fR value of "L", "su" is executed with the "\-" option,
replicating the login environment.
If \fImode\fR not specified, the mode established at SLURM build time 
is used.
Example of use include "\-\-get\-user\-env", "\-\-get\-user\-env=10"
"\-\-get\-user\-env=10L", and "\-\-get\-user\-env=S".
NOTE: This option only works if the caller has an
effective uid of "root".  
This option was originally created for use by Moab.

.TP
\fB\-\-gid\fR[=]<\fIgroup\fR>
If \fBsalloc\fR is run as root, and the \fB\-\-gid\fR option is used, 
submit the job with \fIgroup\fR's group access permissions.  \fIgroup\fR 
may be the group name or the numerical group ID.

.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-hint\fR=\fItype\fR
Bind tasks according to application hints
.RS
.TP
.B compute_bound
Select settings for compute bound applications:
use all cores in each physical CPU
.TP
.B memory_bound
Select settings for memory bound applications:
use only one core in each physical CPU
.TP
.B [no]multithread
[don't] use extra threads with in-core multi-threading
which can benefit communication intensive applications
.B help
show this help message
.RE

.TP 
\fB\-I\fR,\fB\-\-immediate\fR
Grab the requested resources immediately, or abort if the resources are not
currently available.  The \fIcommand\fR parameter will not be run if the resources
are not available.

.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-job\-name\fR[=]<\fIjobname\fR>
Specify a name for the job allocation. The specified name will appear along with
the job id number when querying running jobs on the system.  The default job
name is the name of the "command" specified on the command line.

.TP
\fB\-\-jobid\fR=<\fIjobid\fR>
Allocate resources as the specified job id. 
NOTE: Only valid for user root.

.TP 
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-kill\-command\fR[=\fIsignal\fR]
salloc always runs a user\-specified command once the allocation is
granted.  salloc will wait indefinitely for that command to exit.
If you specify the \-\-kill\-command option salloc will send a signal to
your command any time that the SLURM controller tells salloc that its job
allocation has been revoked. The job allocation can be revoked for a
couple of reasons: someone used \fBscancel\fR to revoke the allocation,
or the allocation reached its time limit.  If you do not specify a signal
name or number, the default signal is SIGTERM.

.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-no\-kill\fR
Do not automatically terminate a job of one of the nodes it has been 
allocated fails.  The user will assume the responsibilities for fault\-tolerance
should a node fail.  When there is a node failure, any active job steps (usually
MPI jobs) on that node will almost certainly suffer a fatal error, but with
\-\-no\-kill, the job allocation will not be revoked so the user may launch
new job steps on the remaining nodes in their allocation.

By default SLURM terminates the entire job allocation if any node fails in its
range of allocated nodes.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-licenses\fR=
Specification of licenses (or other resources available on all 
nodes of the cluster) which must be allocated to this job.
License names can be followed by an asterisk and count 
(the default count is one).
Multiple license names should be comma separated (e.g.
"\-\-licenses=foo*4,bar").

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-distribution\fR=
(\fIblock\fR|\fIcyclic\fR|\fIarbitrary\fR|\fIplane=<options>\fR)
Specify an alternate distribution method for remote processes.
.RS
.TP
.B block
The block method of distribution will allocate processes in\-order to
the cpus on a node. If the number of processes exceeds the number of 
cpus on all of the nodes in the allocation then all nodes will be 
utilized. For example, consider an allocation of three nodes each with 
two cpus. A four\-process block distribution request will distribute 
those processes to the nodes with processes one and two on the first 
node, process three on the second node, and process four on the third node.  
Block distribution is the default behavior if the number of tasks 
exceeds the number of nodes requested.
.TP
.B cyclic
The cyclic method distributes processes in a round\-robin fashion across
the allocated nodes. That is, process one will be allocated to the first
node, process two to the second, and so on. This is the default behavior
if the number of tasks is no larger than the number of nodes requested.
.TP
.B plane
The tasks are distributed in blocks of a specified size.
The options include a number representing the size of the task block.
This is followed by an optional specification of the task distribution 
scheme within a block of tasks and between the blocks of tasks.
For more details (including examples and diagrams), please see
.na
.nh
https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/mc_support.html and
https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/dist_plane.html.
.hy
.ad
.TP
.B arbitrary
The arbitrary method of distribution will allocate processes in\-order as 
listed in file designated by the environment variable SLURM_HOSTFILE.  If
this variable is listed it will over ride any other method specified. 
If not set the method will default to block.  Inside the hostfile must
contain at minimum the number of hosts requested.  If requesting tasks
(\-n) your tasks will be laid out on the nodes in the order of the file.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR=\fItype\fR
Notify user by email when certain event types occur. 
Valid \fItype\fR values are BEGIN, END, FAIL, ALL (any state change). 
The user to be notified is indicated with \fB\-\-mail\-user\fR. 

.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-user\fR=\fIuser\fR
User to receive email notification of state changes as defined by 
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR.
The default value is the username of the submitting user.

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\fR[=]<\fIMB\fR>
Specify the real memory required per node in MegaBytes.
Default value is \fBDefMemPerNode\fR and the maximum value is
\fBMaxMemPerNode\fR. If configured, both of parameters can be
seen using the \fBscontrol show config\fR command.
This parameter would generally be used of whole nodes
are allocated to jobs (\fBSelectType=select/linear\fR).
Also see \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR.
\fB\-\-mem\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR are mutually exclusive.

.TP
\fB\-\-mem_bind\fR=[{\fIquiet,verbose\fR},]\fItype\fR
Bind tasks to memory. Used only when the task/affinity plugin is enabled 
and the NUMA memory functions are available.
\fBNote that the resolution of CPU and memory binding 
may differ on some architectures.\fR For example, CPU binding may be performed 
at the level of the cores within a processor while memory binding will 
be performed at the level of nodes, where the definition of "nodes" 
may differ from system to system. \fBThe use of any type other than 
"none" or "local" is not recommended.\fR
If you want greater control, try running a simple test code with the 
options "\-\-cpu_bind=verbose,none \-\-mem_bind=verbose,none" to determine 
the specific configuration.

The \fBSLURM_MEM_BIND\fR environment variables is set when  \fB\-\-mem_bind\fR 
is in use.

Supported options include:
.RS
.TP
.B q[uiet]
quietly bind before task runs (default)
.TP
.B v[erbose]
verbosely report binding before task runs
.TP
.B no[ne]
don't bind tasks to memory (default)
.TP
.B rank
bind by task rank (not recommended)
.TP
.B local
Use memory local to the processor in use
.TP
.B map_mem:<list>
bind by mapping a node's memory to tasks as specified
where <list> is <cpuid1>,<cpuid2>,...<cpuidN>.
CPU IDs are interpreted as decimal values unless they are preceded
with '0x' in which case they interpreted as hexadecimal values
(not recommended)
.TP
.B mask_mem:<list>
bind by setting memory masks on tasks as specified
where <list> is <mask1>,<mask2>,...<maskN>.
memory masks are \fBalways\fR interpreted as hexadecimal values.
Note that masks must be preceded with a '0x' if they don't begin
with [0-9] so they are seen as numerical values by srun.
.TP
.B help
show this help message
.RE

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR[=]<\fIMB\fR>
Mimimum memory required per allocated CPU in MegaBytes.
Default value is \fBDefMemPerCPU\fR and the maximum value is
\fBMaxMemPerCPU\fR. If configured, both of parameters can be 
seen using the \fBscontrol show config\fR command.
This parameter would generally be used of individual processors
are allocated to jobs (\fBSelectType=select/cons_res\fR).
Also see \fB\-\-mem\fR.
\fB\-\-mem\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR are mutually exclusive.

.TP
\fB\-\-mincores\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of cores per socket.

.TP
\fB\-\-mincpus\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify minimum number of cpus per node.

.TP
\fB\-\-minsockets\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of sockets (physical processors) per node.

.TP
\fB\-\-minthreads\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of threads per core.

.TP 
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nodes\fR[=]<\fInumber|[min]\-[max]\fR>
Specify the number of nodes to be used by this job step.  This option accepts
either a single number, or a range of possible node counts.  If a single
number is used, such as "\-N 4", then the allocation is asking for four and
ONLY four nodes.  If a range is specified, such as "\-N 2\-6", the SLURM
controller may grant salloc anywhere from 2 to 6 nodes.  When using a range,
either of the min or max options may be omitted.  For instance, "\-N 10\-"
means "no fewer than 10 nodes", and "\-N \-20" means "no more than 20 nodes".
The default value of this option is one node, but other options implicitly
increase the default node count. 
The job will be allocated as many nodes as possible within the range specified 
and without delaying the initiation of the job.
The partition's node limits supersede those of the job. 
If a job's node limits are outside of the range permitted for its 
associated partition, the job will be left in a PENDING state. 
This permits possible execution at a later time, when the partition 
limit is changed.
If a job node limit exceeds the number of nodes configured in the 
partition, the job will be rejected.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-ntasks\fR[=]<\fInumber\fR>
salloc does not launch tasks, it requests an allocation of resources and 
executed some command. This option advises the SLURM controller that job 
steps run within this allocation will launch a maximum of \fInumber\fR
tasks and sufficient resources are allocated to accomplish this.  
The default is one task per socket or core (depending upon the value 
of the \fISelectTypeParameters\fR parameter in slurm.conf), but note 
that the \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR option will change this default.

.TP
\fB\-\-network\fR=\fItype\fR
Specify the communication protocol to be used. 
This option is supported on AIX systems.
Since POE is used to launch tasks, this option is not normally used or 
is specified using the \fBSLURM_NETWORK\fR environment variable.
The interpretation of \fItype\fR is system dependent. 
For systems with an IBM Federation switch, the following 
comma\-separated and case insensitive types are recongnized:
\fBIP\fR (the default is user\-space), \fBSN_ALL\fR, \fBSN_SINGLE\fR, 
\fBBULK_XFER\fR and adapter names  (e.g. \fBSNI0\fR and \fBSNI1\fR). 
For more information, on IBM systems see \fIpoe\fR documenation on 
the environment variables \fBMP_EUIDEVICE\fR and \fBMP_USE_BULK_XFER\fR.
Note that only four jobs steps may be active at once on a node with the 
\fBBULK_XFER\fR option due to limitations in the Federation switch driver.

.TP 
\fB\-\-nice\fR[=]<\fIadjustment\fR>
Run the job with an adjusted scheduling priority within SLURM.
With no adjustment value the scheduling priority is decreased
by 100. The adjustment range is from \-10000 (highest priority)
to 10000 (lowest priority). Only privileged users can specify
a negative adjustment. NOTE: This option is presently
ignored if \fISchedulerType=sched/wiki\fR or 
\fISchedulerType=sched/wiki2\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Request that no more than \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each core.
Similar to \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR except at the core level
instead of the node level.  Masks will automatically be generated
to bind the tasks to specific core unless \fB\-\-cpu_bind=none\fR
is specified.
NOTE: This option is not supported unless \fISelectType=CR_Core\fR
or \fISelectType=CR_Core_Memory\fR is configured.

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-socket\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Request that no more than \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each socket.
Similar to \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR except at the socket level
instead of the node level.  Masks will automatically be generated
to bind the tasks to specific sockets unless \fB\-\-cpu_bind=none\fR
is specified.
NOTE: This option is not supported unless \fISelectType=CR_Socket\fR 
or \fISelectType=CR_Socket_Memory\fR is configured.

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Request that no more than \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each node.
This is similar to using \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR=\fIncpus\fR
but does not require knowledge of the actual number of cpus on
each node.  In some cases, it is more convenient to be able to
request that no more than a specific number of ntasks be invoked
on each node.  Examples of this include submitting
a hybrid MPI/OpenMP app where only one MPI "task/rank" should be
assigned to each node while allowing the OpenMP portion to utilize
all of the parallelism present in the node, or submitting a single
setup/cleanup/monitoring job to each node of a pre\-existing  
allocation as one step in a larger job script.

.TP 
\fB\-\-no\-bell\fR
Silence salloc's use of the terminal bell. Also see the option \fB\-\-bell\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-no\-shell\fR
immediately exit after allocating resources instead of spawning a
shell when used with the \fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-allocate\fR option.

.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-overcommit\fR
Overcommit resources. Normally, \fBsbatch\fR will allocate one cpu per
task to be executed. By specifying \fB\-\-overcommit\fR you are explicitly
allowing more than one process per cpu. However no more than
\fBMAX_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR tasks are permitted to execute per node.

.TP 
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR[=]<\fIpartition name\fR>
Request a specific partition for the resource allocation.  If not specified,
the default behaviour is to allow the slurm controller to select the default
partition as designated by the system administrator.

.TP 
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-dependency\fR[=]<\fIdependency_list\fR>
Defer the start of this job until the specified dependencies have been
satisfied completed.
<\fIdependency_list\fR> is of the form 
<\fItype:job_id[:job_id][,type:job_id[:job_id]]\fR>.
Many jobs can share the same dependency and these jobs may even belong to
different  users. The  value may be changed after job submission using the
scontrol command.
.PD
.RS
.TP
\fBafter:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have begun
execution.
.TP
\fBafterany:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated.
.TP
\fBafternotok:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated
in some failed state (non-zero exit code, node failure, timed out, etc).
.TP
\fBafterok:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have successfully
executed (ran to completion with non-zero exit code).
.TP
\fBsingleton\fR
This job can begin execution after any previously launched jobs sharing the same
job name and user have terminated.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress informational messages from salloc. Errors will still be displayed.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-share\fR
The job allocation can share nodes with other running jobs.  (The default
shared/exclusive behaviour depends on system configuration.)
This may result the allocation being granted sooner than if the \-\-share
option was not set and allow higher system utilization, but application
performance will likely suffer due to competition for resources within a node.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR=\fItime\fR
Set a limit on the total run time of the job allocation.
If the requested time limit exceeds the partition's time limit, the 
job will be left in a PENDING state (possibly indefinitely).  The default
time limit is the partition's time limit.  When the time limit is reached,
the each task in each job step is sent SIGTERM followed by SIGKILL. The
interval between signals is specified by the SLURM configuration parameter
\fBKillWait\fR.  A time limit of zero represents unlimited time.
Acceptable time formats include "minutes", "minutes:seconds", 
"hours:minutes:seconds", "days\-hours", "days\-hours:minutes" and 
"days\-hours:minutes:seconds".

.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\fR[=]<\fIMB\fR>
Specify a minimum amount of temporary disk space.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-account\fR[=]<\fIaccount\fR>
Change resource use by this job to specified account.
The \fIaccount\fR is an arbitrary string. The account name may 
be changed after job submission using the \fBscontrol\fR 
command.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-usage\fR
Display brief usage message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-uid\fR[=]<\fIuser\fR>
Attempt to submit and/or run a job as \fIuser\fR instead of the
invoking user id. The invoking user's credentials will be used
to check access permissions for the target partition. User root
may use this option to run jobs as a normal user in a RootOnly
partition for example. If run as root, \fBsalloc\fR will drop
its permissions to the uid specified after node allocation is
successful. \fIuser\fR may be the user name or numerical user ID.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase the verbosity of salloc's informational messages.  Multiple \-v's
will further increase salloc's verbosity.

.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.

.TP 
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-wait\fR[=]<\fIseconds\fR>
If the resources needed to satisy a job allocation are not immediately
available, the job allocation is enqueued and is said to be PENDING.  This
option tells salloc how long (in seconds) to wait for the allocation to be
granted before giving up.  When the wait limit has been reached, salloc
will exit without running the \fIcommand\fR parameter.  By default, salloc
will wait indefinitely.  (The \-\-immediate option makes \-\-wait moot.)

.TP 
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-nodelist\fR[=]<\fInode name list\fR>
Request a specific list of node names.  The list may be specified as a
comma\-separated list of node names, or a range of node names
(e.g. mynode[1\-5,7,...]).  Duplicate node names in the list will be ignored.
The order of the node names in the list is not important; the node names
will be sorted my SLURM.

.TP
\fB\-\-wckey\fR=\fIwckey\fR
Specify wckey to be used with job.  If TrackWCKey=no (default) in the
slurm.conf this value does not get looked at. 

.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR[=]<\fInode name list\fR>
Explicitly exclude certain nodes from the resources granted to the job.


.PP
The following options support Blue Gene systems, but may be 
applicable to other systems as well.

.TP
\fB\-\-conn\-type\fR[=]<\fItype\fR>
Require the partition connection type to be of a certain type.  
On Blue Gene the acceptable of \fItype\fR are MESH, TORUS and NAV.  
If NAV, or if not set, then SLURM will try to fit a TORUS else MESH.
You should not normally set this option.
SLURM will normally allocate a TORUS if possible for a given geometry.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-geometry\fR[=]<\fIXxYxZ\fR>
Specify the geometry requirements for the job. The three numbers 
represent the required geometry giving dimensions in the X, Y and 
Z directions. For example "\-\-geometry=2x3x4", specifies a block 
of nodes having 2 x 3 x 4 = 24 nodes (actually base partitions on 
Blue Gene).

.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-rotate\fR
Disables rotation of the job's requested geometry in order to fit an 
appropriate partition.
By default the specified geometry can rotate in three dimensions.

.TP
\fB\-\-reboot\fR
Force the allocated nodes to reboot before starting the job.

.SH "INPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Upon startup, salloc will read and handle the options set in the following
environment variables.  Note: Command line options always override environment
variables settings.

.TP 22 
\fBSALLOC_ACCOUNT\fR
Same as \fB\-\-account\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_ACCTG_FREQ\fR
Same as \fB\-\-acctg\-freq\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_BELL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-bell\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_CONN_TYPE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-conn\-type\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_CPU_BIND\fR
Same as \fB\-\-cpu_bind\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_DEBUG\fR
Same as \fB\-v\fR or \fB\-\-verbose\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_EXCLUSIVE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-exclusive\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_GEOMETRY\fR
Same as \fB\-g\fR or \fB\-\-geometry\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_IMMEDIATE\fR
Same as \fB\-I\fR or \fB\-\-immediate\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_JOBID\fR
Same as \fB\-\-jobid\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_MEM_BIND\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem_bind\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_NETWORK\fR
Same as \fB\-\-network\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_NO_BELL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-no\-bell\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_NO_ROTATE\fR
Same as \fB\-R\fR or \fB\-\-no\-rotate\fR.
.TP
\fBSLURM_OVERCOMMIT\fR
Same as \fB\-O, \-\-overcommit\fR
.TP
\fBSALLOC_PARTITION\fR
Same as \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-\-partition\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_TIMELIMIT\fR
Same as \fB\-t\fR or \fB\-\-time\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_WAIT\fR
Same as \fB\-W\fR or \fB\-\-wait\fR.

.SH "OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
salloc will set the following environment variables in the environment of
the executed program:
.TP
\fBSLURM_CPU_BIND\fR
Set to value of the \-\-cpu_bind\fR option.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_ID\fR (and \fBSLURM_JOBID\fR for backwards compatibility)
The ID of the job allocation.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_CPUS_PER_NODE\fR
Count of processors available to the job on this node.
Note the select/linear plugin allocates entire nodes to
jobs, so the value indicates the total count of CPUs on each node.
The select/cons_res plugin allocates individual processors
to jobs, so this number indicates the number of processors
on each node allocated to the job allocation.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_NODELIST\fR (and \fBSLURM_NODELIST\fR for backwards compatibility)
List of nodes allocated to the job.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_NUM_NODES\fR (and \fBSLURM_NNODES\fR for backwards compatibility)
Total number of nodes in the job allocation.
.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND\fR
Set to value of the \-\-mem_bind\fR option.
.TP
\fBSLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR
Number of tasks to be initiated on each node. Values are
comma separated and in the same order as SLURM_NODELIST.
If two or more consecutive nodes are to have the same task
count, that count is followed by "(x#)" where "#" is the
repetition count. For example, "SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE=2(x3),1"
indicates that the first three nodes will each execute three
tasks and the fourth node will execute one task.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_NOALLOCATE\fR
Do not allocate a block on Blue Gene systems only.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_NOFREE\fR
Do not free a block on Blue Gene systems only.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_PARTITION\fR
The block name on Blue Gene systems only.

.SH "SIGNALS"
.LP 
While salloc is waiting for a PENDING job allocation, most signals will cause salloc to revoke the allocation request and exit.

However, if the allocation has been granted and salloc has already started the command 
specified in its command line parameters salloc will ignore most signals.  salloc will not exit or release the allocation until the command exits.  The notable exception is SIGHUP; a HUP signal will cause salloc to release the allocation and exit without waiting for the command to finish.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To get an allocation, and open a new xterm in which srun commands may be typed interactively:
.IP 
$ salloc \-N16 xterm
.br 
salloc: Granted job allocation 65537
.br 
(at this point the xterm appears, and salloc waits for xterm to exit)
.br 
salloc: Relinquishing job allocation 65537
.LP 
To grab an allocation of nodes and launch a parallel application on one command line (See the \fBsalloc\fR man page for more examples):
.IP 
salloc \-N5 srun \-n10 myprogram

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
sinfo(1), sattach(1), sbatch(1), squeue(1), scancel(1), scontrol(1), slurm.conf(5), sched_setaffinity(2), numa(3)
