.TH SSTAT "1" "May 2008" "sacctmgr 1.3" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sstat \- Used to query running job and see various usage information
of job/step running.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BR "sstat "
\fBsstat\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Status information for jobs invoked with SLURM.
.PP
The 
.BR "sstat "
command displays job accounting data stored in the job accounting log 
file in a variety of forms for your analysis.
The 
.BR "sstat "
command displays information on jobs, job steps, status, and exitcodes by 
default.
You can tailor the output with the use of the 
\f3\-\-fields=\fP 
option to specify the fields to be shown.
.PP
For the root user, the 
.BR "sstat "
command displays job status data for any job running on the system.
.PP
For the non\-root user, the 
.BR "sstat "
command limits the display of job status data to jobs that were 
launched with their own user identifier (UID) by default.

.SS "Options"
.TP "10"

.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3jobid\fP 
.IP 
and 
\f3\-\-fields=\fP 
options.
.IP 

.TP 
\f3\-F \fP\f2field_list\fP \f3,\fP  \f3\-\-fields\fP\f3=\fP\f2field_list\fP
Displays the job status data specified by the 
\f2field_list\fP 
operand, which is a comma\-separated list of fields.
Space characters are not allowed in the 
\f2field_list\fP\c
\&. 
.IP 
See the 
\f3\-\-help\-fields\fP 
option for a list of the available fields.
See the section titled "Job Status Fields" for a description of 
each field.
.IP 
The job accounting data is displayed in the order specified by the 
\f2field_list\fP 
operand.
Thus, the following two commands display the same data but in different order:
.RS 
.PP
.nf 
.ft 3
# sstat \-\-fields=jobid,state
Jobid    State
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
3          COMPLETED
3.0        COMPLETED

.ft 1
.fi 
.RE 
.RS 
.PP
.nf 
.ft 3
# sacct \-\-fields=status,jobid
State     Jobid
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\- \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
COMPLETED  3
COMPLETED  3.0

.ft 1
.fi 
.RE 
.IP 
The default value for the 
\f2field_list\fP 
operand is 
\f3"jobid,vsize,rss,pages,cputime,ntasks,state"\fP\c
\&.
.IP 
This option has no effect when the 
\f3\-\-dump\fP 
option is also specified.


.TP 
\f3\-h \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-help\fP
Displays a general help message.
.TP 
\f3\-\-help\-fields\fP
Displays a list of fields that can be specified with the 
\f3\-\-fields\fP 
option.
.RS 
.PP
.nf 
.ft 3
Fields available:
cputime     jobid       ntasks      pages
rss         state       vsize

.ft 1
.fi 
.RE 
.IP 
The section titled "Job Accounting Fields" describes these fields.

.TP 
\f3\-j \fP\f2job(.step)\fP \f3,\fP  \f3\-\-jobs\fP\f3=\fP\f2job(.step)\fP
Displays information about the specified job(.step) or list of job(.step)s.
.IP 
The 
\f2job(.step)\fP 
parameter is a comma\-separated list of jobs.
Space characters are not permitted in this list.
.IP 
The default is to display information on all jobs.

.TP 
\f3\-\-noheader\fP
Prevents the display of the heading over the output.
The default action is to display a header.
.IP 
This option has no effect when used with the 
\f3\-\-dump\fP 
option.

\f3\-S \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-stat\fP
.IP
Queries the status of a job as the job is running displaying
the following data:
.RS 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3jobid\fP 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3vsize\fP 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3rss\fP 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3pages\fP 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3cputime\fP 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3ntasks\fP 
.TP "3"
\(bu
\f3status\fP 
.RE 
.IP
You must also include the \-\-jobs=job(.step) option if no (.step) is 
given you will recieve the job.0 step.

.TP 
\f3\-\-usage\fP
Displays a help message.

.TP 
\f3\-v \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-verbose\fP
Reports the state of certain variables during processing.
This option is primarily used for debugging.

.SS "Job Status Fields"
The following describes each job accounting field:
.RS 
.TP
\f3cputime\fP
Minimum CPU time of any process followed by its task id along with
the average of all processes running in the step.

.TP 
\f3jobid\fP 
The number of the job or job step.
It is in the form: 
\f2job.jobstep\fP\c
\&.

.TP
\f3ntasks\fP 
Total number of tasks in job.

.TP
\f3pages\fP
Maximum page faults of any process followed by its task id along with
the average of all processes running in the step.

.TP 
\f3rss\fP 
Maximum resident set size of any process followed by its task id along with
the average of all processes running in the step.

.TP
\f3state\fP
Displays the job state.
.IP 
Output can be 
\f3RUNNING\fP\c
\&, 
\f3SUSPENDED\fP\c
\&,
\f3COMPLETED\fP\c
\&, 
\f3CANCELLED\fP\c
\&, 
\f3FAILED\fP\c
\&, 
\f3TIMEOUT\fP\c
\&, or 
\f3NODE_FAIL\fP\c
\&.

.TP
\f3vsize\fP
Maximum Virtual Memory size of any process followed by its task id along with
the average of all processes running in the step.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsacct\fR(1)
