.TH "Slurm API" "3" "April 2007" "Morris Jette" "Slurm informational calls"

.SH "NAME"
slurm_free_ctl_conf, slurm_load_ctl_conf,
slurm_print_ctl_conf \- Slurm information reporting functions

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP
long \fBslurm_api_version\fR ();
.LP
void \fBslurm_free_ctl_conf\fR (
.br
	slurm_ctl_conf_t *\fIconf_info_msg_ptr\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR (
.br
	time_t \fIupdate_time\fP,
.br
	slurm_ctl_conf_t **\fIconf_info_msg_pptr\fP
.br
);
.LP
void \fBslurm_print_ctl_conf\fR (
.br
	FILE *\fIout_file\fp,
.br
	slurm_ctl_conf_t *\fIconf_info_msg_ptr\fP
.br
);
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP
.TP
\fIconf_info_msg_pptr\fP
Specifies the double pointer to the structure to be created and filled with the
time of the last configuration update and detailed configuration information.
Configuration information includes control machine names, file names, timer
values, etc. See slurm.h for full details on the data structure's contents.
.TP
\fIconf_info_msg_ptr\fP
Specifies the pointer to the structure created by \fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR.
.TP
\fIout_file\fP
Specifies the file to print data to.
.TP
\fIupdate_time\fP
For all of the following informational calls, if update_time is equal to or
greater than the last time changes where made to that information, new information
is not returned.  Otherwise all the configuration. job, node, or partition records
are returned.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBslurm_api_version\fR Return the SLURM API version number.
.LP
\fBslurm_free_ctl_conf\fR Release the storage generated by the
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR function.
.LP
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR Returns a slurm_ctl_conf_t that contains
Slurm configuration records.
.LP
\fBslurm_print_ctl_conf\fR Prints the contents of the data structure loaded by the
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
For \fBslurm_api_version\fR the SLURM API version number is returned.
All other functions return zero on success and \-1 on error with the
SLURM error code set appropriately.
.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBSLURM_NO_CHANGE_IN_DATA\fR Data has not changed since \fBupdate_time\fR.
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_VERSION_ERROR\fR Protocol version has changed, re\-link your code.
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_SOCKET_IMPL_TIMEOUT\fR Timeout in communicating with
SLURM controller.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm_errno.h>
.LP
int main (int argc, char *argv[])
.br
{
.br
	slurm_ctl_conf_t * conf_info_msg_ptr = NULL;
.br
	long version = slurm_api_version;
.LP
	/* We can use the SLURM version number to determine how
.br
	 * API should be used */
.br
	printf("slurm_api_version: %ld, %ld.%ld.%ld\\n", version,
.br
		SLURM_VERSION_MAJOR(version),
.br
		SLURM_VERSION_MINOR(version),
.br
		SLURM_VERSION_MICRO(version));
.LP
	/* get and print some configuration information */
.br
	if ( slurm_load_ctl_conf ((time_t) NULL,
.br
	                          &conf_info_msg_ptr ) ) {
.br
		slurm_perror ("slurm_load_ctl_conf error");
.br
		exit (1);
.br
	}
.br
	/* The easy way to print */
.br
	slurm_print_ctl_conf (stdout,
.br
	                      conf_info_msg_ptr);
.LP
	/* The hard way */
.br
	printf ("control_machine = %s\\n",
.br
	        slurm_ctl_conf_ptr\->control_machine);
.br
	printf ("server_timeout = %u\\n",
.br
	        slurm_ctl_conf_ptr\->server_timeout);
.LP
	slurm_free_ctl_conf (conf_info_msg_ptr);
.br
	exit (0);
.br
}

.SH "NOTE"
These functions are included in the libslurm library,
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBscontrol\fR(1),
\fBslurm_get_errno\fR(3), \fBslurm_perror\fR(3), \fBslurm_strerror\fR(3)

