.TH SCANCEL "1" "January 2003" "scancel 0.1" "Slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
scancel \- Used to signal jobs or job steps that are under the control of Slurm.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBscancel\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fIjob_id\fR[.\fIstep_id\fR]] [\fIjob_id\fR[.\fIstep_id\fR]...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBscancel\fR is used to signal or cancel jobs or job steps. An arbitrary number 
of jobs or job steps may be signaled using job specification filters or a
space separated list of specific job and/or job step IDs. A job or job step 
can only be signaled by the owner of that job or user root. If an attempt is 
made by an unauthorized user to signal a job or job step, an error message will 
be printed and the job will not be signaled. 
.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of scancel.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
Interactive mode. Confirm each job_id.step_id before performing the cancel operation.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR=\fIjob_name\fR
The name of jobs to be signaled.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR=\fIpartition_name\fR
The name of the partition from which jobs are to be signaled.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-signal\fR=\fIsignal_name\fR
The name or number of the signal to be send. Default value is "KILL".
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-state\fR=\fIjob_state_name\fR
The state of the jobs are to be signaled. \fIjob_state_name\fR may have a value of 
either "PENDING" or "RUNNING".
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR=\fIuser_name\fR
The name of the user whose jobs are to be signaled.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print additional logging. Multiple v's increase logging detail. 
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-Version\fR
Print the version number of the scontrol command. 
.TP
ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIjob_id\fP
The Slurm job ID of the job to have one of its steps or the entire job signaled.
.TP
\fIstep_id\fP
The step ID of the job step to be signaled. If none is provided, then 
all jobs steps associated with the provided job_id will be signaled.
.SH "NOTES"
.TP
If multiple filters are supplied (e.g. \fB\-\-partition\fR and \fB\-\-name\fR) only the jobs satisfying all of the filtering options will be signaled.
.TP
If a signal value of "KILL" (the default value) is to be sent to an entire job, this will result in the job's termination and its resource allocation being released. 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
Send SIGTERM to steps 1 and 3 of job 1234:
scancel \-\-signal=TERM 1234.1 1234.3
.TP
Cancel job 1234 along with all of its steps:
scancel 1234
.TP
Cancel job all pending jobs belonging to user "bob" in partition "debug":
scancel \-\-state=PENDING \-\-user=bob \-\-partition=debug
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm_kill_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_kill_job_step\fR(3)
