.TH SINFO "1" "April 2003" "sinfo 0.1" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sinfo \- Used to view information of jobs located in the scheduling queue.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsinfo\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsinfo\fR is used to view partition and node status and information for a 
system running SLURM. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBsinfo\fR.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exact\fR
If set, to not group node information on a single node unless their configurations are identical. By default cpu count, memory size, and disk space will be listed as a range for nodes with the same partition and state.
.TP
\fB\-i <time>\fR , \fB\-\-iterate <time>\fR
Print the state on a periodic basis.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR , \fB\-\-long\fR
List more detailed information than normally provided.
.TP
\fB\-n <node>\fR , \fB\-\-node <node>\fR
List information on the specified node(s).
.TP
\fB\-t <state>\fR , \fB\-\-state <state>\fR
List nodes of a given state.
.TP
\fB\-\-summarize\fR
List only a partition state summary. Do not show individual nodes.
.TP
\fB\-p <partition>\fR, \fB\-\-partition <partition>\fR
Display information about the specified partition.  
If \fB-p\fR is used no arguments, all partitions will be displayed.
If \fB-p\fR is used with a \fB-n\fR having no arguments, all the nodes of the 
specified partition will be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Dipaly brief description of commands and options.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR , \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provide detailed event logging through program execution.
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
\fBnode\fR
The names of one or more comma separated nodes. Names may be specified using node range expressions.
For example "linux[00-07]" would indicate eight nodes, "linux00" through "linux07".
.TP
\fBpartition\fR
The names of one or more comma separated partitions.
.TP
\fBstate\fR
A valid node state. Possible values include: ALLOC, ALLOCATED, COMP, 
COMPLETING, DOWN, DRAIN, DRAINED, DRAINING, IDLE, UNK, and UNKNOWN.
A "*" suffix may be appended to any of these states to search for 
nodes in the specified state which are not responding. 
By default nodes in the specified state are reported whether they are 
responding or not.
.TP
\fBtime\fR
Number of seconds to wait between each iteration.
.SH "OUTPUT"
.TP
\fBPARTITION\fR
Name of the partition.
.TP
\fBNODES\fR
Count of nodes with this particular configuration.
.TP
\fBSTATE\fR
State of the nodes. Note that the suffix "*" marks nodes that are presently 
not responding.
.TP
\fBCPUS\fR
Count of CPUs (processors) on these nodes.
.TP
\fBMEM\fR
Size of real memory in megabytes on these nodes.
.TP
\fBDISK\fR
Size of temporary disk space in megabytes on these nodes.
.TP
\fBNODES\fR
Names of nodes with this particular configuration.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
Report basic system configuration:
.br
# ./sinfo
.br
PARTITION   NODES  STATE  CPUS MEMORY TMP_DISK  NODES
.br
----------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug          18  IDLE      2    128      512  dev[1-18]
.br
debug           2  DRAIN     2    128      512  dev[19-20]
.br
pbatch         60  ALLOC     2    128      512  dev[21-80]
.br
pbatch         19  IDLE      2    128      512  dev[81-99]
.br
 
.br
Report more complete information about the partition debug:
.br
# ./sinfo --long --partition debug
.br
PARTITION INFORMATION
.br
============================================================
.br
debug
.br
        current state     = UP
.br
        default partition = YES
.br
        total nodes       = 20
.br
        total cpus        = 40
.br
        max jobtime       = 30
.br
        max nodes/job     = 10
.br
        root only         = NO
.br
        share nodes       = NO
.br

.br
        NODES  STATE  CPUS MEMORY TMP_DISK  NODES
.br
        ----------------------------------------------------
.br
           18  IDLE      2    128      512  dev[1-18]
.br
            2  DRAIN     2    128      512  dev[19-20]
.br

.br
===========================================================+=
.br
 
.br
Report only those nodes that are in state DRAINED:
.br
# ./sinfo --state DRAINED
.br
PARTITION   NODES  STATE  CPUS  MEMORY TMP_DISK  NODES
.br
-----------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug           2  DRAIN     2     128      512  dev[19-20]
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_reconfigure\fR(3), \fBslurm_shutdown\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_update_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_node\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_partition\fR(3)
