.TH SBCAST "1" "January 2006" "sbcast 1.1" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sbcast \- transmit a file to the nodes allocated to a SLURM job.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsbcast\fR [\-CfpvV] SOURCE DEST 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsbcast\fR is used to transmit a file to all nodes allocated 
to the currenly active SLURM job.
This command should only be executed from within a SLURM batch
job or within the shell spawned after a SLURM job\'s resource 
allocation. 
\fBSOURCE\fR is the name of a file on the current node.
\fBDEST\fR should be the fully qualified pathname for the 
file copy to be created on each node. 
This should be on a file system local to that node.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-compress\fR
Compress the file being transmitted.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
If the destination file already exists, replace it.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-preserve\fR
Preserves modification times, access times, and modes from the 
original file.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provide detailed event logging through program execution.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES" 
.PP 
Some \fBsbcast\fR options may be set via environment variables. 
These environment variables, along with their corresponding options, 
are listed below. (Note: Command line options will always override 
these settings.)
.TP 20
\fBSBCAST_COMPRESS\fR
\fB\-C, \-\-compress\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_FORCE\fR
\fB\-f, \-\-force\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_PRESERVE\fR
\fB\-p, \-\-preserve\fR

.SH "EXAMPLE"

Using a batch script, transmit local file \fBmy.prog\fR to 
\fB/tmp/my.proc\fR on the local nodes and then execute it.

.nf
> cat my.job
#!/bin/bash
sbcast my.prog /tmp/my.prog
srun my.prog

> srun --nodes=8 --batch my.job
srun: jobid 12345 submitted
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-217948.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsrun\fR(1)
