.TH MPI_Keyval_create 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Keyval_create \-  Generates a new attribute key 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Keyval_create ( 
        MPI_Copy_function *copy_fn, 
        MPI_Delete_function *delete_fn, 
        int *keyval, 
        void *extra_state )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B copy_fn 
- Copy callback function for 
.I keyval

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B delete_fn 
- Delete callback function for 
.I keyval

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B extra_state 
- Extra state for callback functions 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B keyval 
- key value for future access (integer) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
Key values are global (available for any and all communicators).

There are subtle differences between C and Fortran that require that the
copy_fn be written in the same language that 
.I MPI_Keyval_create
is called from.
This should not be a problem for most users; only programers using both
Fortran and C in the same program need to be sure that they follow this rule.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_INTERN 
- This error is returned when some part of the MPICH 
implementation is unable to acquire memory.  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
keyvalcreate.c
