.TH "slurmdbd.conf" "5" "February 2009" "slurmdbd.conf 2.0" "Slurm configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
slurmdbd.conf \- Slurm Database Daemon (SlurmDBD) configuration file

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fB/etc/slurmdb.conf\fP is an ASCII file which describes Slurm Database
Daemon (SlurmDBD) configuration information.
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter.
.LP
The contents of the file are case insensitive except for the names of nodes
and files. Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated
as a comment through the end of that line.
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of
SlurmDbd or daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal unless otherwise noted.
.LP
This file should be only on the computer where SlurmDBD executes and
should only be readable by the user which executes SlurmDBD (e.g. "slurm").
This file should be protected from unauthorized access since it
contains a database password.
The overall configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBArchiveDir\fR
If ArchiveScript is not set the slurmdbd will generate a text file that can be
read in anytime with sacctmgr load filename.  This directory is where the
file will be placed archive has ran.  Default is /tmp.

.TP
\fBArchiveEvents\fR
Boolean, yes to archive event data, no other wise.  Default is no.

.TP
\fBArchiveJobs\fR
Boolean, yes to archive job data, no other wise.  Default is no.

.TP
\fBArchiveScript\fR
This script is executed periodically in order to transfer accounting
records out of the database into an archive. The script is executed
with a no arguments, The following environment variables are set.
.RS
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_EVENTS\fR
1 for archive events 0 otherwise.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_EVENT\fR
Time of last event start to archive.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_JOBS\fR
1 for achive jobs 0 otherwise.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_JOB\fR
Time of last job submit to archive.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_STEPS\fR
1 for archive steps 0 otherwise.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_STEP\fR
Time of last step start to archive.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_SUSPEND\fR
1 for archive suspend data 0 otherwise.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_SUSPEND\fR
Time of last suspend start to archive.
.TP
.RE

.TP
\fBArchiveSteps\fR
Boolean, yes to archive step data, no other wise.  Default is no.

.TP
\fBArchiveSuspend\fR
Boolean, yes to archive suspend data, no other wise.  Default is no.

.TP
\fBAuthInfo\fR
Additional information to be used for authentication of communications
with the Slurm control daemon (slurmctld) on each cluster.
The interpretation of this option is specific to the configured \fBAuthType\fR.
In the case of \fIauth/munge\fR, this can be configured to use a Munge daemon
specifically configured to provide authentication between clusters while the
default Munge daemon provides authentication within a cluster.
In that case, this will specify the pathname of the socket to use.
The default value is NULL, which results in the default authentication
mechanism being used.

.TP
\fBAuthType\fR
Define the authentication method for communications between SLURM
components.
Acceptable values at present include "auth/none", "auth/authd",
and "auth/munge".
The default value is "auth/none", which means the UID included in
communication messages is not verified.
This may be fine for testing purposes, but
\fBdo not use "auth/none" if you desire any security\fR.
"auth/authd" indicates that Brett Chun's authd is to be used (see
"http://www.theether.org/authd/" for more information).
"auth/munge" indicates that LLNL's Munge system is to be used
(this is the best supported authentication mechanism for SLURM,
see "http://home.gna.org/munge/" for more information).
SlurmDbd must be terminated prior to changing the value of \fBAuthType\fR
and later restarted.

.TP
\fBDbdBackupHost\fR
The name of the machine where the backup Slurm Database Daemon is executed.
This host must have access to the same underlying database specified by
the 'Storage' options mentioned below.
This should be a node name without the full domain name.  I.e., the hostname
returned by the \fIgethostname()\fR function cut at the first dot (e.g. use
"tux001" rather than "tux001.my.com").

.TP
\fBDbdHost\fR
The name of the machine where the Slurm Database Daemon is executed.
This should be a node name without the full domain name.  I.e., the hostname
returned by the \fIgethostname()\fR function cut at the first dot (e.g. use
"tux001" rather than "tux001.my.com").  This value must be specified.

.TP
\fBDbdPort\fR
The port number that the Slurm Database Daemon (slurmdbd) listens
to for work. The default value is SLURMDBD_PORT as established at system
build time. If none is explicitly specified, it will be set to 6819.
This value must be equal to the \fBSlurmDbdPort\fR parameter in the
slurm.conf file.

.TP
\fBDebugLevel\fR
The level of detail to provide the Slurm Database Daemon's logs.
Values from 0 to 9 are legal, with `0' being "quiet" operation and
`9' being insanely verbose.
The default value is 3.

.TP
\fBDefaultQOS\fR
When adding a new cluster this will be used as the qos for the cluster
unless something is explicitly set by the admin with the create.

.TP
\fBLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the Slurm Database Daemon's
logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).

.TP
\fBMessageTimeout\fR
Time permitted for a round\-trip communication to complete
in seconds. Default value is 10 seconds.

.TP
\fBPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the Slurm Database Daemon
may write its process ID. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmdbd.pid".

.TP
\fBPluginDir\fR
Identifies the places in which to look for SLURM plugins.
This is a colon\-separated list of directories, like the PATH
environment variable.
The default value is "/usr/local/lib/slurm".

.TP
\fBPrivateData\fR
This controls what type of information is hidden from regular users.
By default, all information is visible to all users.
User \fBSlurmUser\fR, \fBroot\fR, and users with AdminLevel=Admin can always
view all information.
Multiple values may be specified with a comma separator.
Acceptable values include:
.RS
.TP
\fBaccounts\fR
prevents users from viewing any account definitions unless they are
coordinators of them.
.TP
\fBjobs\fR
prevents users from viewing job records belonging
to other users unless they are coordinators of the association running the job
when using sacct.
.TP
\fBreservations\fR
restricts getting reservation information to users with operator status
and above.
.TP
\fBusage\fR
prevents users from viewing usage of any other user.
This applys to sreport.
.TP
\fBusers\fR
prevents users from viewing information of any user
other than themselves, this also makes it so users can only see
associations they deal with.
Coordinators can see associations of all users they are coordinator of,
but can only see themselves when listing users.
.RE

.TP
\fBPurgeEventMonths\fR
Events happening on the cluster over this age are purged from the database.
This includeds node down times and such.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.
If zero (default), then job step records are never purged.

.TP
\fBPurgeJobMonths\fR
Individual job records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved indefinitely.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.
If zero (default), then job records are never purged.

.TP
\fBPurgeStepMonths\fR
Individual job step records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved indefinitely.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.
If zero (default), then job step records are never purged.

.TP
\fBPurgeSuspendMonths\fR
Records of individual suspend times for jobs over this age are purged from the
database.
Aggregated information will be preserved indefinitely.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.
If zero (default), then job step records are never purged.

.TP
\fBSlurmUser\fR
The name of the user that the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon executes as.
This user must exist on the machine executing the Slurm Database Daemon
and have the same user ID as the hosts on which \fBslurmctld\fR execute.
For security purposes, a user other than "root" is recommended.
The default value is "root".

.TP
\fBStorageHost\fR
Define the name of the host the database is running where we are going
to store the data.
Ideally this should be the host on which slurmdbd executes.

.TP
\fBStorageBackupHost\fR
Define the name of the backup host the database is running where we are going
to store the data.  This can be viewed as a backup solution when the
StorageHost is not responding.  It is up to the backup solution to enforce the
coherency of the accounting information between the two hosts. With clustered
database solutions (acitve/passive HA), you would not need to use this feature.
Default is none.

.TP
\fBStorageLoc\fR
Specify the name of the database as the location where accounting
records are written.

.TP
\fBStoragePass\fR
Define the password used to gain access to the database to store
the job accounting data.

.TP
\fBStoragePort\fR
The port number that the Slurm Database Daemon (slurmdbd) communicates
with the database.

.TP
\fBStorageType\fR
Define the accounting storage mechanism type.
Acceptable values at present include
"accounting_storage/gold", "accounting_storage/mysql", and
"accounting_storage/pgsql".
The value "accounting_storage/gold" indicates that account records
will be written to Gold
(http://www.clusterresources.com/pages/products/gold-allocation-manager.php),
which maintains its own database.
The value "accounting_storage/mysql" indicates that accounting records
should be written to a MySQL database specified by the
\fStorageLoc\fR parameter.
The value "accounting_storage/pgsql" indicates that accounting records
should be written to a PostgreSQL database specified by the
\fBStorageLoc\fR parameter.  This plugin is not complete and
should not be used if wanting to use associations.  It will however work with
basic accounting of jobs and job steps.  If interested in
completing please email slurm-dev@lists.llnl.gov.
This value must be specified.

.TP
\fBStorageUser\fR
Define the name of the user we are going to connect to the database
with to store the job accounting data.

.TP
\fBTrackWCKey\fR
Boolean yes or no.  Used to set display and track of the Workload
Characterization Key. Must be set to track wckey usage.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
#
.br
# Sample /etc/slurmdbd.conf
.br
#
.br
ArchiveEvents=yes
.br
ArchiveJobs=yes
.br
ArchiveSteps=no
.br
ArchiveSuspend=no
.br
#ArchiveScript=/usr/sbin/slurm.dbd.archive
.br
AuthInfo=/var/run/munge/munge.socket.2
.br
AuthType=auth/munge
.br
DbdHost=db_host
.br
DebugLevel=4
.br
PurgeEventMonths=1
.br
PurgeJobMonths=12
.br
PurgeStepMonths=1
.br
PurgeSuspendMonths=1
.br
LogFile=/var/log/slurmdbd.log
.br
PidFile=/var/tmp/jette/slurmdbd.pid
.br
SlurmUser=slurm_mgr
.br
StoragePass=shazaam
.br
StorageType=accounting_storage/mysql
.br
StorageUser=database_mgr

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/slurmdbd.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5),
\fBslurmctld\fR(8), \fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
\fBsyslog\fR(2)
