.TH SSTAT "1" "January 2009" "sstat 2.0" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sstat \- Display various status information
of a running job/step.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BR "sstat "
[\fIOPTIONS\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Status information for running jobs invoked with SLURM.
.PP
The
.BR "sstat "
command displays job status information for your analysis.
The
.BR "sstat "
command displays information pertaining to CPU, Task, Node, Resident
Set Size (RSS) and Virtual Memory (VM).
You can tailor the output with the use of the
\f3\-\-fields=\fP
option to specify the fields to be shown.
.PP
For the root user, the
.BR "sstat "
command displays job status data for any job running on the system.
.PP
For the non\-root user, the
.BR "sstat "
output is limited to the user's jobs.

.PP
Note:  the
.BR "sstat "
command requires that the \f3jobacct_gather\fP plugin be installed and
operational.

.TP
\f3\-a\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-allsteps\fP
Print all steps for the given job(s) when no step is specified.

.TP
\f3\-e\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-helpformat\fP
Print a list of fields that can be specified with the '\-\-format' option.

.TP
\f3\-h\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-help\fP
Displays a general help message.

.TP
\f3\-j\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-jobs\fP
Format is <job(.step)>. Stat this job step or comma-separated list of
job steps. This option is required.  The step portion will default to
step 0 if not specified, unless the \-\-allsteps flag is set where not
specifying a step will result in all running steps to be displayed.

.TP
\f3\-n\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-noheader\fP
No heading will be added to the output. The default action is to
display a header.

.TP
\f3\-o\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-format\fP,\fP \f3\-\-fields\fP
Comma separated list of fields.
(use '\-\-helpformat' for a list of available fields).

.TP
\f3\-p\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-parsable\fP
output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end

.TP
\f3\-P\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-parsable2\fP
output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end

.TP
\f3\-\-usage\fP
Display a command usage summary.

.TP
\f3\-v\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-verbose\fP
Primarily for debugging purposes, report the state of various
variables during processing.

.TP
\f3\-V\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-version\fP
Print version.


.SS "Job Status Fields"
The following are the field options:
.RS
.TP
\f3AveCPU\fP
Average (system + user) CPU time of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3AvePages\fP
Average number of page faults of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3AveRSS\fP
Average resident set size of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3AveVMSize\fP
Average Virtual Memory size of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3JobID\fP
The number of the job or job step.
It is in the form:
\f2job.jobstep\fP\c
\&.

.TP
\f3MaxPages\fP
Maximum number of page faults of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3MaxPagesNode\fP
The node on which the maxpages occurred.

.TP
\f3MaxPagesTask\fP
The task ID where the maxpages occurred.

.TP
\f3MaxRSS\fP
Maximum resident set size of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3MaxRSSNode\fP
The node on which the maxrss occurred.

.TP
\f3MaxRSSTask\fP
The task ID where the maxrss occurred.

.TP
\f3MaxVMSize\fP
Maximum Virtual Memory size of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3MaxVMSizeNode\fP
The node on which the maxvsize occurred.

.TP
\f3MaxVMSizeTask\fP
The task ID where the maxvsize occurred.

.TP
\f3MinCPU\fP
Minimum (system + user) CPU time of all tasks in job.

.TP
\f3MinCPUNode\fP
The node on which the mincpu occurred.

.TP
\f3MinCPUTask\fP
The task ID where the mincpu occurred.

.TP
\f3NTasks\fP
Total number of tasks in a job or step.


.SH "EXAMPLES"

.TP
\f3sstat \-\-format=AveCPU,AvePages,AveRSS,AveVSize,JobID \-j 11\fP
25:02.000  0K         1.37M      5.93M      9.0

.TP
\f3sstat \-p \-\-format=AveCPU,AvePages,AveRSS,AveVSize,JobID \-j 11\fP
25:02.000|0K|1.37M|5.93M|9.0|

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2009 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsacct\fR(1)
