.TH SCANCEL "1" "July 2002" "scancel 0.1" "Slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
scancel \- Used to cancel jobs or job steps that are under the control of Slurm.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBscancel\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] \fIjob_id\fR[.\fIstep_id\fR] [\fIjob_id\fR[.\fIstep_id\fR]...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBscancel\fR is used to cancel jobs or job steps. An arbitrary number of jobs 
or job steps may be cancelled using a space separated list. A job or job step 
can only be cancelled by the owner of that job or user root. If an attempt is 
made by an unauthorized user to cancel a job or job step, an error message will 
be printed and the job will not be cancelled. 
.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of scancel.
.TP
\fB-i\fR
Interactive mode. Confirm each job_id.step_id before performing the cancel operation.
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Print the version number of the scontrol command.
.TP
ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIjob_id\fP
The Slurm job ID of the job to have one of its steps or the entire job cancelled.
.TP
\fIstep_id\fP
The step ID of the job step to be cancelled. If none is provided, then 
all jobs steps associated with the provided job_id will be cancelled along 
with the job itself.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
Cancel steps 1 and 3 of job 1234:
scancel 1234.1 1234.3
.TP
Cancel job 1234 along with all of its steps:
scancel 1234
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm_cancel_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_cancel_job_step\fR(3)
