.TH SINFO "1" "October 2002" "sinfo 0.1" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sinfo \- Used to view information of jobs located in the scheduling queue.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsinfo\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsinfo\fR is used to view partition and node status and information for a 
system running SLURM. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB-?\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBsinfo\fR.
.TP
\fB-i <time>\fR , \fB--iterate <time>\fR
Print the state on a periodic basis.
.TP
\fB-l\fR , \fB--long\fR
List more detailed information than normally provided.
.TP
\fB-n <node>\fR , \fB--node <node>\fR
List information on the specified node(s).
.TP
\fB-t <state>\fR , \fB--state <state>\fR
List nodes of a given state.
.TP
\fB--summarize\fR
List only a partition state summary. Do not show individual nodes.
.TP
\fB-p <partition>\fR, \fB--partition <partition>\fR
Display information about the specified partition.  If \fB-p\fR is used with a
\fB-n\fR with no arguments, all the nodes of the specified partition will be
displayed.
.TP
\fB--usage\fR
Dipaly brief description of commands and options.
.TP
\fB-v\fR , \fB--verbose\fR
Provide detailed event logging through program execution.
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
\fBnode\fR
The names of one or more comma separated nodes. Names may be specified using regular expressions.
For example "linux[00-07]" would indicate eight nodes, "linux00" through "linux07".
.TP
\fBpartition\fR
The names of one or more comma separated partitions.
.TP
\fBstate\fR
A valid node state. Possible values include: DOWN, UNKNOWN, IDLE, ALLOCATED, DRAINED, and DRAINING.
.TP
\fBtime\fR
Number of seconds to wait between each iteration.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.eo
PUT THE EXAMPLE HERE...
.br 
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_reconfigure\fR(3), \fBslurm_shutdown\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_update_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_node\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_partition\fR(3)
