.TH "Slurm API" "3" "December 2006" "Morris Jette" "Slurm job step launch functions"

.SH "NAME"

slurm_job_step_launch_t_init slurm_step_launch, slurm_step_launch_wait_start,
slurm_step_launch_wait_finish, slurm_step_launch_abort \- Slurm job step launch functions

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP 
.LP
void \fBslurm_job_step_launch_t_init\fR (
.br
	slurm_job_step_launch_t *\fIlaunch_req\fP 
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_step_launch\fR (
.br
	slurm_step_ctx \fIctx\fP,
.br
	const slurm_job_step_launch_t *\fIlaunch_req\fP,
.br
	const slurm_job_step_launch_callbacks_t \fIcallbacks\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_step_launch_wait_start\fR (
.br
	slurm_step_ctx \fIctx\fP
.br
);
.LP
void \fBslurm_step_launch_wait_finish\fR (
.br
	slurm_step_ctx \fIctx\fP
.br
);
.LP
void \fBslurm_step_launch_abort\fR {
.br
	slurm_step_ctx \fIctx\fP
.br
);

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP 
.TP
\fIcallbacks\fP
Identify functions to be called when various events occur.
.TP
\fIctx\fP
Job step context. Created by \fBslurm_step_ctx_create\fR, used in subsequent
function calls, and destroyed by \fBslurm_step_ctx_destroy\fR.
.TP
\fIlaunch_req\fP
Pointer to a structure allocated by the user containing specifications of 
the job step to be launched.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBslurm_job_step_launch_t_init\fR Iinitialize a user-allocated
slurm_job_step_launch_t structure with default values.
default values.  This function will NOT allocate any new memory.
.LP
\fBslurm_step_launch\fR Launch a parallel job step.
.LP
\fBslurm_step_launch_wait_start\fR Block until all tasks have started.
.LP
\fBslurm_step_launch_wait_finish\fR Block until all tasks have finished 
(or failed to start altogether).
.LP
\fBslurm_step_launch_abort\fR Abort an in-progress launch, or terminate 
the fully launched job step. Can be called from a signal handler.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
\fBslurm_step_launch\fR and \fBslurm_step_launch_wait_start\fR
will return SLURM_SUCCESS or SLURM_ERROR (with errno set).

.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBEINVAL\fR Invalid argument
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_VERSION_ERROR\fR Protocol version has changed, re\-link your code.
.LP
\fBESLURM_INVALID_JOB_ID\fR the requested job id does not exist. 
.LP
\fBESLURM_ALREADY_DONE\fR the specified job has already completed and can not be modified. 
.LP
\fBESLURM_ACCESS_DENIED\fR the requesting user lacks authorization for the requested action (e.g. trying to delete or modify another user's job). 
.LP
\fBESLURM_INTERCONNECT_FAILURE\fR failed to configure the node interconnect. 
.LP
\fBESLURM_BAD_DIST\fR task distribution specification is invalid. 
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_SOCKET_IMPL_TIMEOUT\fR Timeout in communicating with 
SLURM controller.

.SH "EXAMPLE
.LP
#include <signal.h>
.br
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <stdlib.h>
.br
#include <string.h>
.br
#include <unistd.h>
.br
#include <sys/types.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm_errno.h>
.LP
int main (int argc, char *argv[])
.br 
{
.br
	/* To be done */
.br
	exit (0);
.br
}

.SH "NOTE"
These functions are included in the libslurm library, 
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL\-CODE\-217948.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fBslurm_allocate_resources\fR(3), \fBslurm_job_step_create\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_kill_job\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_get_errno\fR(3), \fBslurm_perror\fR(3), \fBslurm_strerror\fR(3),
\fBsalloc\fR(1), \fBsrun\fR(1) 
