.TH "Slurm API" "3" "Slurm suspend, resume and requeue functions" "April 2015" "Slurm suspend, resume and requeue functions"

.SH "NAME"
slurm_suspend, slurm_suspend2, slurm_resume, slurm_resume2, slurm_requeue,
slurm_requeue2, slurm_free_job_array_resp  \- Slurm suspend, resume and requeue functions

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP
.LP
int \fBslurm_suspend\fR (
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_suspend2\fR (
.br
        char * \fIjob_id_str\fP,
        job_array_resp_msg_t **resp
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_resume\fR (
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_resume2\fR (
.br
        char * \fIjob_id_str\fP,
        job_array_resp_msg_t **resp
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_requeue\fR (
.br
        uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP,
        uint32_t \fIstate\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_requeue2\fR (
.br
	char * \fIjob_id_str\fP,
        uint32_t \fIstate\fP,
        job_array_resp_msg_t **resp
.br
);
.LP
void \fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR (
.br
        job_array_resp_msg_t *resp
.br
);

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP
.TP
\fIjob_id\fP
Slurm job ID to perform the operation upon in numeric form.
.TP
\fIjob_id_str\fP
Slurm job ID to perform the operation upon in string form.
This is intended to be a single job.
For job arrays, the job ID may be followed by an underscore and task ID values.
For example: "123", "123_4", "123_4\-6", "123_4,6,8", and "123_4\-6,18".
The functions using this option are designed primarily for use with job
arrays so that separate error codes can be returned for each task of the
job array.
.TP
\fIresp\fP
Array of error codes and job IDs.
Always use the \fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR function to release the memory
allocated to hold the error codes.
.TP
\fIstate\fP
The state in which the job should be requeued valid values are:
.RS
.TP 20
\fI"0"\fP
If the job has to be requeued in JOB_PENDING state.
.TP
\fI"JOB_SPECIAL_EXIT"\fP
If the job has to be requeued in the special exit state and be held.
.TP
\fI"JOB_REQUEUE_HOLD"\fP
If the job has to be requeued in "JOB_PENDING" and held state.
.RE

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.TP 18
\fBslurm_suspend\fR
Suspend the specified job.
.TP
\fBslurm_suspend2\fR
Suspend the specified job or job array.
Call the function \fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR to release memory allocated
for the response array.
.TP
\fBslurm_resume\fR
Resume execution of a previously suspended job.
.TP
\fBslurm_resume2\fR
Resume execution of a previously suspended job or job array.
Call the function \fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR to release memory allocated
for the response array.
.TP
\fBslurm_requeue\fR
Requeue a running or pending Slurm batch job.
The job script will be restarted from its beginning,
ignoring any previous checkpoint.
.TP
\fBslurm_requeue2\fR
Requeue a running or pending Slurm batch job or job array.
The job script will be restarted from its beginning,
ignoring any previous checkpoint.
Call the function \fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR to release memory allocated
for the response array.
.TP
\fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR
Release memory allocated by the \fBslurm_suspend2\fR, \fBslurm_resume2\fR,
\fBslurm_requeue2\fR, and \fBslurm_update_job2\fR functions.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
Zero is returned upon success.
On error, \-1 is returned, and the Slurm error code is set appropriately.
Functions \fBslurm_suspend2\fR, \fBslurm_resume2\fR, and \fBslurm_requeue2\fR
return zero if the \fIresp\fP array is filled, in which the that array should
be examined to determine the error codes for individual tasks of a job array.
Then call the function \fBslurm_free_job_array_resp\fR to release memory
allocated for the response array.

.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBESLURM_DISABLED\fR the operation is currently disabled
(e.g. attempt to suspend a job that is not running,
resume a job that is not currently suspended, or
requeue a job on which the operation has been disabled).
.LP
\fBESLURM_INVALID_JOB_ID\fR the requested job id does not exist.
.LP
\fBESLURM_ACCESS_DENIED\fR the requesting user lacks authorization for the
requested action (e.g. not user root or SlurmUser).
.LP
\fBESLURM_JOB_PENDING\fR the requested job is still pending.
.LP
\fBESLURM_ALREADY_DONE\fR the requested job has already completed.
.LP
\fBESLURM_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR the requested operation is not supported on this system.

.SH "NOTE"
These functions are included in the libslurm library,
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").

.SH "COPYING"
Portions copyright (C) 2014 SchedMD LLC.
Portions copyright (C) 2005\-2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBscontrol\fR(1)
