.TH "Slurm API" "3" "September 2006" "Morris Jette" "Slurm host list support functions"

.SH "NAME"
slurm_hostlist_create, slurm_hostlist_shift, slurm_hostlist_destroy
\- Slurm host list support functions

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP 
.LP
hostlist_t \fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR (
.br
	char *\fInode_list\fP
.br
);
.LP
char * \fBslurm_hostlist_shift\fR (
.br
	hostlist_t \fIhost_list\fP
.br
);
.LP
void \fBslurm_hostlist_destroy\fR (
.br
	hostlist_t \fIhost_list\fP
.br
);

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP 
.TP
\fInode_list\fP
A list of nodes as returned by the 
\fBslurm_job_step_create\fR functions. The returned value may include a simple 
range format to describe numeric ranges of values and/or multiple numeric 
values (e.g. "linux[1\-3,6]" represents "linux1", "linux2", "linux3", and "linux6").
.TP
\fIhost_list\fP
A hostlist created by the \fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR function. 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR creates a database of node names from a range format 
describing node names. Use \fBslurm_hostlist_destroy\fR to release storage associated 
with the database when no longer required.
.LP
\fBslurm_hostlist_shift\fR extracts the first entry from the host list database created 
by the \fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR function.
.LP
\fBslurm_hostlist_destroy\fR releases storage associated with a database created by 
\fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR when no longer required.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
\fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR returns the host list database or NULL if memory can not be 
allocated for the database.

.LP
\fBslurm_hostlist_shift\fR returns a character string or NULL if no entries remain in 
the database.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <hostlist.h>
.br
#include <slurm.h>
.LP 
int main (int argc, char *argv[])
.br 
{
.br
	hostlist_t my_hostlist;
.br
	char *hostnames, *host;
.LP
	/* generate a list of hostnames, possibly using a */
.br
	/*    slurm job step creation function */
.LP
	my_hostlist = slurm_hostlist_create (hostnames);
.br
	if (my_hostlist == NULL) {
.br
		fprintf (stderr, "No memory\\n");
.br
		exit (1);
.br
	}
.LP
	while ( (host = slurm_hostlist_shift(my_hostlist)) )
.br
		printf ("host = %s\\n", host); 
.LP
	slurm_hostlist_destroy (my_hostlist) ;
.br
	exit (0);
.br 
}

.SH "NOTE"
These functions are included in the libslurm library, 
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fBslurm_get_job_steps\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_partitions\fB(3)
