.TH "Slurm API" "3" "January 2009" "David Bremer" "Slurm reservation information reporting functions"
.SH "NAME"
slurm_load_reservations, slurm_free_reservation_info_msg, 
slurm_print_reservation_info, slurm_sprint_reservation_info,
slurm_print_reservation_info_msg
\- Slurm reservation information reporting functions
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP 
int \fBslurm_load_reservations\fR (
.br 
	time_t \fIupdate_time\fR, 
.br 
	reserve_info_msg_t **\fIreservation_info_msg_pptr\fP
.br 
 );
.LP
void \fBslurm_free_reservation_info_msg\fR (
.br 
	reserve_info_msg_t *\fIreservation_info_msg_ptr\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
void \fBslurm_print_reservation_info\fR (
.br
	FILE *\fIout_file\fP, 
.br
	reserve_info_t *\fIreservation_ptr\fP,
.br
	int \fIone_liner\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
char * \fBslurm_sprint_reservation_info\fR (
.br
	reserve_info_t *\fIreservation_ptr\fP,
.br
	int \fIone_liner\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
void \fBslurm_print_reservation_info_msg\fR (
.br
	FILE *\fIout_file\fP,
.br
	reserve_info_msg_t *\fIreservation_info_msg_ptr\fP,
.br
	int \fIone_liner\fP
.br 
);
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fIone_liner\fP
Print one record per line if non\-zero.
.TP 
\fIout_file\fP
Specifies the file to print data to.
.TP
\fIreservation_info_msg_pptr\fP
Specifies the double pointer to the structure to be created and filled 
with the time of the last reservation update, a record count, and detailed 
information about each reservation.  Detailed reservation information is 
written to fixed sized records and includes:  reservation name, time limits, 
access restrictions, etc.  See slurm.h for full details on the data 
structure's contents. 
.TP 
\fIreservation_info_msg_ptr\fP
Specifies the pointer to the structure created by \fBslurm_load_reservations\fP. 
.TP
\fIupdate_time\fP
For all of the following informational calls, if update_time is equal to or greater 
than the last time changes where made to that information, new information is 
not returned.  Otherwise all the configuration. job, node, or reservation records 
are returned.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBslurm_load_reservations\fR Returns a reserve_info_msg_t that contains an 
update time, record count, and array of reservation_table records for all reservations.
.LP 
\fBslurm_free_reservation_info_msg\fR Release the storage generated by the 
\fBslurm_load_reservations\fR function.
.LP 
\fBslurm_print_reservation_info\fR  Prints the contents of the data structure 
describing one of the reservation records from the data loaded by the 
\fBslurm_load_reservations\fR function.
.LP 
\fBslurm_sprint_reservation_info\fR  Prints the sames info as 
\fBslurm_print_reservation_info\fR, but prints to a string that must be freed 
by the caller, rather than printing to a file.
.LP 
\fBslurm_print_reservation_info_msg\fR Prints the contents of the data 
structure describing all reservation records loaded by the 
\fBslurm_load_reservations\fR function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
On success, zero is returned. On error, \-1 is returned, and Slurm error code 
is set appropriately.
.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBSLURM_NO_CHANGE_IN_DATA\fR Data has not changed since \fBupdate_time\fR.
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_VERSION_ERROR\fR Protocol version has changed, re\-link 
your code.
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_SOCKET_IMPL_TIMEOUT\fR Timeout in communicating with 
SLURM controller.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <stdlib.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm_errno.h>
.LP 
int main (int argc, char *argv[])
.br 
{
.br
	int i;
.br
	reserve_info_msg_t *res_info_ptr = NULL;
.br
	reserve_info_t *res_ptr;
.LP
	/* get and dump all reservation information */
.br
	if (slurm_load_reservations((time_t)NULL,
.br
	                            &res_info_ptr)) {
.br
		slurm_perror ("slurm_load_reservations error");
.br
		exit (1);
.br
	}
.LP
	/* The easy way to print... */
.br
	slurm_print_reservation_info_msg(stdout, 
.br
	                                 res_info_ptr, 0);
.LP
	/* A harder way.. */
.br
	for (i = 0; i < res_info_ptr\->record_count; i++) {
.br
		res_ptr = &res_info_ptr\->reservation_array[i];
.br
		slurm_print_reservation_info(stdout, res_ptr, 0);
.br
	}
.LP
	/* The hardest way. */
.br
	printf("reservations updated at %lx, records=%d\\n",
.br
	       res_info_ptr\->last_update, 
.br
	       res_info_ptr\->record_count);
.br
	for (i = 0; i < res_info_ptr\->record_count; i++) {
.br
		printf ("reservationName=%s Nodes=%s\\n", 
.br
			res_info_ptr\->reservation_array[i].name, 
.br
			res_info_ptr\->reservation_array[i].node_list );
.br
	}
.LP
	slurm_free_reservation_info_msg (res_info_ptr);
.br
	return 0;
.br 
}

.SH "NOTES"
These functions are included in the libslurm library, 
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").
.LP
The \fBslurm_hostlist_\fR functions can be used to convert SLURM node list
expressions into a collection of individual node names.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBsinfo\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1), 
\fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR(3), \fBslurm_hostlist_shift\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_hostlist_destroy\fR(3),
\fBslurm_get_errno\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_perror\fR(3), \fBslurm_strerror\fR(3)

