.TH "Slurm API" "3" "September 2006" "Morris Jette" "Slurm job information reporting functions"
.SH "NAME"
slurm_free_job_info_msg, slurm_get_end_time,
slurm_get_rem_time, slurm_get_select_jobinfo,
slurm_load_jobs, slurm_pid2jobid, 
slurm_print_job_info, slurm_print_job_info_msg
\- Slurm job information reporting functions
.LP
ISLURM_GET_REM_TIME, ISLURM_GET_REM_TIME2
\- Fortran callable extensions

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <time.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.br
#include <sys/types.h>
.LP
void \fBslurm_free_job_info_msg\fR (
.br 
	job_info_msg_t *\fIjob_info_msg_ptr\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
int \fBslurm_load_job\fR (
.br 
	job_info_msg_t **\fIjob_info_msg_pptr\fP,
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
.LP 
int \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR (
.br 
	time_t \fIupdate_time\fP,
.br 
	job_info_msg_t **\fIjob_info_msg_pptr\fP,
.br
	uint16_t \fIshow_flags\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
int \fBslurm_pid2jobid\fR (
.br
	pid_t \fIjob_pid\fP,
.br
	uint32_t *\fIjob_id_ptr\fP
.br 
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_get_end_time\fR (
.br
	uint32_t \fIjobid\fP, 
.br
	time_t *\fIend_time_ptr\fP
.br
);
.LP
long \fBslurm_get_rem_time\fR (
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br
);
.LP 
void \fBslurm_print_job_info\fR (
.br
	FILE *\fIout_file\fP,
.br
	job_info_t *\fIjob_ptr\fP,
.br
	int \fIone_liner\fP
.br 
);
.LP 
void \fBslurm_print_job_info_msg\fR (
.br
	FILE *\fIout_file\fP,
.br
	job_info_msg_t *\fIjob_info_msg_ptr\fP,
.br
	int \fIone_liner\fP
.br 
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_get_select_jobinfo\fR (
.br
	select_jobinfo_t \fIjobinfo\fP,
.br
	enum select_data_type \fIdata_type\fP, 
.br
	void *\fIdata\fP
);

.SH "FORTRAN EXTENSION"
.LP
INTEGER*4 JOBID, REM_TIME
.br
REM_TIME = ISLURM_GET_REM_TIME(JOBID)
.br
REM_TIME = ISLURM_GET_REM_TIME2()
.LP
ISLURM_GET_REM_TIME2() is equivalent to ISLURM_GET_REM_TIME() except 
that the JOBID is taken from the SLURM_JOBID environment variable, 
which is set by SLURM for tasks which it launches.
Both functions return the number of seconds remaining before the job 
reaches the end of it's allocated time.

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP 
\fIdata_type\fP
Identifies the type of data to retrieve \fIjobinfo\fP. Note that different types of 
data are associated with different computer types and different configurations. 
.TP
\fIdata\fP
The data value identified with \fIdata_type\fP is returned in the location specified
by \fIdata\fP. If a type of data is requested that does not exist on a particular 
computer type or configuration, \fBslurm_get_select_jobinfo\fR returns an error.
See the slurm.h header file for identification of the data types associated 
with each value of \fIdata_type\fP.
.TP
\fIend_time_ptr\fP
Specified a pointer to a storage location into which the expected termination 
time of a job is placed.
.TP 
\fIjob_info_msg_pptr\fP
Specifies the double pointer to the structure to be created and filled with 
the time of the last job update, a record count, and detailed information 
about each job. Detailed job information is written to fixed sized records 
and includes: ID number, name, user ID, state, assigned or requested node 
names, indexes into the node table, etc. In the case of indexes into the 
node table, this is an array of integers with pairs of start and end index 
number into the node information records and the data is terminated with a 
value of \-1. See slurm.h for full details on the data structure's contents. 
.TP 
\fIjob_id\fP
Specifies a slurm job id. If zero, use the SLURM_JOBID environment variable
to get the jobid.
.TP 
\fIjob_id_ptr\fP
Specifies a pointer to a storage location into which a Slurm job id may be 
placed.
.TP 
\fIjob_info_msg_ptr\fP
Specifies the pointer to the structure created by \fBslurm_load_job\fR
or \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR. 
.TP
\fIjobinfo\fP
Job\-specific information as constructed by Slurm's NodeSelect plugin.
This data object is returned for each job by the \fBslurm_load_job\fR or
\fBslurm_load_jobs\fR function.
.TP 
\fIjob_pid\fP
Specifies a process id of some process on the current node.
.TP
\fIjob_ptr\fP
Specifies a pointer to a single job records from the \fIjob_info_msg_ptr\fP 
data structure.
.TP 
\fIone_liner\fP
Print one record per line if non\-zero.
.TP 
\fIout_file\fP
Specifies the file to print data to.
.TP 
\fIshow_flags\fP
Job filtering flags, may be ORed. 
Information about jobs in partitions that are configured as 
hidden and partitions that the user's group is unable to utilize 
are not reported by default.
The \fBSHOW_ALL\fP flag will cause information about jobs in all 
partitions to be displayed.
.TP 
\fIupdate_time\fP
For all of the following informational calls, if update_time is equal to or 
greater than the last time changes where made to that information, new 
information is not returned.  Otherwise all the configuration. job, node, 
or partition records are returned.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBslurm_free_job_info_msg\fR Release the storage generated by the 
\fBslurm_load_jobs\fR function.
.LP 
\fBslurm_get_end_time\fR Returns the expected termination time of a specified 
SLURM job. The time corresponds to the exhaustion of the job\'s or partition\'s 
time limit. NOTE: The data is cached locally and only retrieved from the 
SLURM controller once per minute.
.LP
\fBslurm_get_rem_time\fR Returns the number of seconds remaining before the 
expected termination time of a specified SLURM job id. The time corresponds 
to the exhaustion of the job\'s or partition\'s time limit. NOTE: The data is 
cached locally and only retrieved from the SLURM controller once per minute.
.LP 
\fBslurm_load_job\fR Returns a job_info_msg_t that contains an update time, 
record count, and array of job_table records for some specific job ID.
.LP 
\fBslurm_load_jobs\fR Returns a job_info_msg_t that contains an update time, 
record count, and array of job_table records for all jobs.
.LP 
\fBslurm_pid2jobid\fR Returns a Slurm job id corresponding to the supplied 
local process id. This only works for processes which Slurm spawns and their 
descendants.
.LP 
\fBslurm_print_job_info\fR Prints the contents of the data structure 
describing a single job records from the data loaded by the 
\fBslurm_load_node\fR function.
.LP 
\fBslurm_print_job_info_msg\fR Prints the contents of the data structure 
describing all job records loaded by the \fBslurm_load_node\fR function.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
For \fBslurm_get_rem_time\fR on success a number of seconds is returned.
For all other functions zero is returned on success. 
On error, \-1 is returned, and Slurm error code is set appropriately.

.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBSLURM_NO_CHANGE_IN_DATA\fR Data has not changed since \fBupdate_time\fR.
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_VERSION_ERROR\fR Protocol version has changed, re\-link 
your code.
.LP
\fBESLURM_INVALID_JOB_ID\fR Request for information about a non\-existent job.
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_SOCKET_IMPL_TIMEOUT\fR Timeout in communicating with 
SLURM controller.
.LP
\fBINVAL\fR Invalid function argument.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
#include <stdio.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.br
#include <slurm/slurm_errno.h>
.br
#include <sys/types.h>
.LP 
int main (int argc, char *argv[])
.br 
{
.br 
	int i;
.br
	job_info_msg_t	* job_info_msg = NULL;
.br
	job_info_t * job_ptr;
.br
	uint32_t job_id;
.LP
	/* get and dump some job information */
.br
	if ( slurm_load_jobs ((time_t) NULL, 
.br
	                      &job_buffer_ptr, SHOW_ALL) ) {
.br
		slurm_perror ("slurm_load_jobs error");
.br
		exit (1);
.br
	}
.LP
	/* The easy way to print... */
.br
	slurm_print_job_info_msg (stdout, job_buffer_ptr);
.LP
	/* A harder way.. */
.br
	for (i = 0; i < job_buffer_ptr\->record_count; i++) {
.br
		job_ptr = &job_buffer_ptr\->job_array[i];
.br
		slurm_print_job_info(stdout, job_ptr);
.br
	}
.LP
	/* The hardest way. */
.br
	printf ("Jobs updated at %lx, record count %d\\n",
.br
	        job_buffer_ptr\->last_update, 
.br
	        job_buffer_ptr\->record_count);
.br
	for (i = 0; i < job_buffer_ptr\->record_count; i++) {
.br
		printf ("JobId=%u UserId=%u\\n", 
.br
			job_buffer_ptr\->job_array[i].job_id, 
.br
			job_buffer_ptr\->job_array[i].user_id);
.br
	}
.LP
	if (job_buffer_ptr\->record_count >= 1) {
.br
		uint16_t rotate;
.br
		if (slurm_get_select_jobinfo(
.br
			job_buffer_ptr\->job_array[0].select_jobinfo,
.br
			SELECT_DATA_ROTATE,
.br
			&rotate) == SLURM_SUCCESS)
.br
			printf("JobId=%u Rotate=%u\\n",
.br
				job_buffer_ptr\->job_array[0].job_id, 
.br
				rotate);
.br
	}
.LP
	slurm_free_job_info_msg (job_buffer_ptr);
.LP
	if (slurm_pid2jobid (getpid(), &job_id))
.br
		slurm_perror ("slurm_load_jobs error");
.br
	else
.br
		printf ("Slurm job id = %u\\n", job_id);
.br
	exit (0);
.br 
}

.SH "NOTES"
These functions are included in the libslurm library, 
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").
.LP
Some data structures contain index values to cross\-reference each other. 
If the \fIshow_flags\fP argument is not set to SHOW_ALL when getting this 
data, these index values will be invalid.
.LP
The \fBslurm_hostlist_\fR functions can be used to convert SLURM node list
expressions into a collection of individual node names.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1), 
\fBslurm_hostlist_create\fR(3), \fBslurm_hostlist_shift\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_hostlist_destroy\fR(3),
\fBslurm_allocation_lookup\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_get_errno\fR(3), \fBslurm_perror\fR(3), \fBslurm_strerror\fR(3)

