.TH SREPORT "1" "May 2008" "sreport 1.3" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sreport \- Used to generate reports from the slurm accounting data.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBssreport\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBssreport\fR is used to generate certain reports.  More can be added
at any time.  It provides a view into accounting data gathered from slurm via
the account information maintained within a database with the interface 
being provided by the \fBslurmdbd\fR (Slurm Database daemon).

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all_clusters\fR
Use all clusters instead of only cluster from where the command was run.

\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBssreport\fR.
This is equivalent to the \fBhelp\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no_header\fR
Don't display header when listing results.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no warning or informational messages, only error messages.
This is equivalent to the \fBquiet\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-parsable\fR
Output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parsable2\fR
Output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print detailed event logging. 
This is equivalent to the \fBverbose\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.
This is equivalent to the \fBversion\fR command.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.TP
\fBexit\fP
Terminate the execution of sreport.
Identical to the \fBquit\fR command.

.TP
\fBhelp\fP
Display a description of sreport options and commands.

.TP
\fBquiet\fP
Print no warning or informational messages, only fatal error messages.

.TP
\fBquit\fP
Terminate the execution of sreport.
Identical to the \fBexit\fR command.

.TP
\fBverbose\fP
Print detailed event logging. 
This includes time\-stamps on data structures, record counts, etc.
This is an independent command with no options meant for use in interactive mode.

.TP
\fBversion\fP
Display the version number of sreport being executed.

.TP
\fB!!\fP
Repeat the last command executed.

.SH "REPORT TYPES"
.TP
\fBcluster\fP, \fBjob\fP, and \fBuser\fP

.TP
Various reports are as follows...
     cluster - Utilization
     job     - Sizes
     user    - TopUsage

.TP
Each report type has various options...

.TP
COMMON FOR ALL TYPES
.RS
.TP
.B All_Clusters
Use all monitored clusters default is local cluster.
.TP
.B End=<OPT>
Period ending for report. Default is 23:59:59 of previous day.
.TP
.B Format=<OPT>
Comma separated list of fields to display in report.
.TP
.B Start=<OPT>
Period start for report.  Default is 00:00:00 of previous day.
.RE

.TP
CLUSTER
.RS
.TP
.B Names=<OPT>
List of clusters to include in report.  Default is local cluster.
.RE

.TP
JOB    
.RS
.TP
.B Accounts=<OPT>
List of accounts to use for the report Default is all.
.TP
.B Clusters=<OPT>
List of clusters to include in report.  Default is local cluster.
.TP
.B GID=<OPT>
List of group ids to include in report.  Default is all.
.TP
.B Grouping=<OPT>
Comma separated list of size groupings.   (i.e. 50,100,150 would group job cpu count 1-49, 50-99, 100-149, > 150).
.TP
.B Jobs=<OPT>
List of jobs/steps to include in report.  Default is all.
.TP
.B Partitions=<OPT>
List of partitions jobs ran on to include in report.  Default is all.
.TP
.B Users=<OPT>
List of users jobs to include in report.  Default is all.
.RE

.TP
USER
.RS
.TP
.B Clusters=<OPT>
List of clusters to include in report. Default is local cluster.
.TP
.B Group
Group all accounts together for each user.  Default is a separate entry for each user and account reference.
.TP
.B Users=<OPT>
List of users jobs to include in report.  Default is all.
.RE


.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
.br
> sreport job sizes 
.br
> sreport cluster utilization 
.br
> sreport user top 
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
