.TH "wiki.conf" "5" "December 2007" "wiki.conf 1.2" "Slurm configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
wiki.conf \- Slurm configuration file for wiki and wiki2 scheduler plugins
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fB/etc/wiki.conf\fP is an ASCII file which describes wiki and wiki2 
scheduler specific SLURM configuration information. 
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter. The file will always be located in the 
same directory as the \fBslurm.conf\fP file. 
.LP
Paramter names are case insensitive.
Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated 
as a comment through the end of that line. 
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of 
SLURM daemons, daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal, or execution 
of the command "scontrol reconfigure" unless otherwise noted.
.LP
The overall configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBAuthKey\fR
Authentication key for communications. 
This should be no more than a 32\-bit unsigned integer and match the 
KEY configured in the \fBmoab\-private.cnf\fR file (for the Moab Scheduler) 
or the \fB\-\-with-key=\fR value used to configure the Maui Scheduler.

.TP
\fBEHost\fR
Name the computer on which Moab server executes.
It is used in establishing a communications path for event notification. 
By default \fBEHost\fR will be identical in value to the 
\fBControlAddr\fR configured in slurm.conf.
Not applicable to wiki plugin, only the wiki2 plugin.

.TP
\fBEHostBackup\fR
Name the computer on which the backup Moab server executes.
It is used in establishing a communications path for event notification.
By default \fBEHostBackup\fR will be identical in value to the
\fBBackupAddr\fR configured in slurm.conf.
Not applicable to wiki plugin, only the wiki2 plugin.

.TP
\fBEPort\fR
Port to be used to notify Moab of events (job submitted to SLURM, 
job terminates, etc.). 
This numeric value should match EPORT configured in the
\fBmoab.cnf\fR file.
Not applicable to wiki plugin, only the wiki2 plugin.

.TP
\fBExcludePartitions\fR
Identifies partitions whose jobs are to be scheduled directly 
by SLURM rather than Moab/Maui. 
This only effects jobs which are submitted using SLURM 
commands (i.e. srun, salloc or sbatch, NOT msub from Moab).
These jobs will be scheduled on a First\-Come\-First\-Served 
basis directly by SLURM. 
Note that SLURM recognizes jobs submitted via msub based 
upon the value \fBFirstJobId\fR configured in \fIslurm.conf\fR.
Set the values \fBMINJOBID\fR and \fBMAXJOBID\fR in \fImoab.cfg\fR
accordingly. 
For example MINJOBID=1, MAXJOBID=65535 and FirstJobId=65536.
Jobs submitted using msub will have job ID values in the range 
of 1 and 65535 while jobs submitted directly using SLURM commands
will have a job ID of 65536 or higher.
Moab/Maui controls for resource reservation, fair share 
scheduling, etc. will not apply to the initiation of these jobs.
While Moab/Maui will not control the initiation of jobs in these 
partitions, it will account for and report the jobs.
If more than one partition is to be scheduled directly by
SLURM, use a comma separator between their names.
This may provide faster response times than Moab/Maui scheduling. 

.TP
\fBHidePartitionJobs\fR
Identifies partitions whose jobs are not to be reported to Moab/Maui.
These jobs will not be accounted for or otherwise visible to Moab/Maui.
Any partitions listed here must also be listed in \fBExcludePartitions\fR.
This only effects jobs which are submitted using SLURM commands (i.e. 
\fIsrun\fR, \fIsalloc\fR or \fIsbatch\fR, NOT \fImsub\fR from Moab).
If more than one partition is to have its jobs hidden, use a comma 
separator between their names.

.TP
\fBHostFormat\fR
Controls the format of host lists exchanged between SLURM and Moab.
The default value is "0".
.RS
.TP
\fB0\fR
No data compression. Each host name is listed individually.
.TP
\fB1\fR
SLURM hostlist expressions are exchanged with task counts
(e.g. "tux[0\-16]*2") in job state information and job 
initiation requests.
.TP
\fB2\fR
SLURM hostlist expressions are used to report node state information.
.RE

.TP
\fBJobAggregationTime\fR
This is used to avoid notifying Moab of large numbers of events 
occuring about the same time.
If an event occurs within this number of seconds since Moab was 
last notified of an event, another notification is not sent.
This should be an integer number of seconds.
The default value is 10 seconds.
The value should match JOBAGGREGATIONTIME configured in the 
\fBmoab.cnf\fR file.
Not applicable to wiki plugin, only the wiki2 plugin.

.TP
\fBJobPriority\fR
Controls initial job priority. 
The default value is "hold".
Not applicable to wiki plugin, only the wiki2 plugin.
.RS
.TP
\fBrun\fR
Job permitted to run directly under SLURM's control
.TP
\fBhold\fR
Hold all incomming jobs until Moab or Maui tell them to run
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
.br
##################################################################
.br
# SLURM's configuration file for sched/wiki plugin
.br
##################################################################
.br
#
.br
# Hold all incoming jobs until Moab tells them to run
.br
JobPriority=hold
.br
# Slurm directly schedules jobs in the debug and test partitions
.br
ExcludePartitions=debug,test
.br
#
.br
# Moab encryption key, matches KEY in moab\-private.cfg
.br
AuthKey=1234
.br
#
.br
# Moab event notification port, matches EPORT in moab.cfg
.br
EPort=15017
.br
# Moab event notification hosts, where Moab executes
.br
EHost=tux0
.br
EHostBackup=tux1
.br
# Moab event notifcation throttle, matches JOBAGGREGATIONTIME 
.br
# in moab.cfg (integer value in seconds)
.br
JobAggregationTime=15

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
