.TH SACCTMGR "1" "March 2008" "sacctmgr 1.3" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sacctmgr \- Used view and modify Slurm account information.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBssacctmgr\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBssacctmgr\fR is used to view or modify Slurm account information.
The account information is maintained within a database with the interface 
being provided by \fBslurmdbd\fR (Slurm Database daemon).
This database can serve as a central storehouse of user and 
computer information for multiple computers at a single site.
Slurm account information is recorded based upon four parameters
that form what is refered to as an \fIassociation\fR. 
These parameters are \fIuser\fR, \fIcluster\fR, \fIpartition\fR, and 
\fIaccount\fR. \fIuser\fR is the login name.
\fIcluster\fR is the name of a Slurm managed cluster as specified by 
the \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR configuration file. 
\fIpartition\fR is the name of a Slurm partition on that cluster.
\fIaccount\fR is the bank account for a job.
The intended mode of operation is to initiate the \fBssacctmgr\fR command, 
add, delete, modify, and/or list \fIassociation\fR records then 
commit the changes and exit.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Display information about all entities including hidden or deleted ones. 
This is equivalent to the \fBall\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBssacctmgr\fR.
This is equivalent to the \fBhelp\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-\-hide\fR
Do not display information about hidden or deleted entities. 
This is equivalent to the \fBhide\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-immediate\fR
Commit all changes immediately. Use with caution.
This is equivalent to the \fBimmediate\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-oneliner\fR
Print information one line per record.
This is equivalent to the \fBoneliner\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no warning or informational messages, only error messages.
This is equivalent to the \fBquiet\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-association\fR
Show an association for entities displayed.
This is equivalent to the \fBassociation\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print detailed event logging. 
This is equivalent to the \fBverbose\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.
This is equivalent to the \fBversion\fR command.

.TP
\fBCOMMANDS\fR

.TP
\fBall\fR
Display information about all entities including hidden or deleted ones. 

.TP
\fBadd\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> <\fISPECS\fR>
Add an entity.

.TP
\fBassociation\fR
Show an association for entities displayed.

.TP
\fBcommit\fR
Commit changes performed with the \fBadd\fR, \fBdelete\fR and \fBmodify\fR
commands to the database.

.TP
\fBdelete\fR \fIENTITY\fR \fISPECS\fR
Delete the specified entities.

.TP
\fBexit\fP
Terminate the execution of sacctmgr.

.TP
\fBhelp\fP
Display a description of sacctmgr options and commands.

.TP
\fBhide\fP
Do not display information about hidden or deleted entities. 

.TP
\fBimmediate\fP
Commit all changes immediately. Use with caution.

.TP
\fBlist\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> [<\fISPECS\fR>]
Display information about the specified entities.
By default, all entities are displayed.
Idential to the \fBshow\fR command.

.TP
\fBmodify\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> <\fISPECS\fR>
Modify an entities.

.TP
\fBoneliner\fP
Print information one line per record.

.TP
\fBquiet\fP
Print no warning or informational messages, only fatal error messages.

.TP
\fBquit\fP
Terminate the execution of sacctmgr.

.TP
\fBshow\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> [<\fISPECS\fR>]
Display information about the specified entities.
By default, all entities are displayed.
Idential to the \fBlist\fR command.

.TP
\fBverbose\fP
Print detailed event logging. 
This includes time\-stamps on data structures, record counts, etc.
This is an independent command with no options meant for use in interactive mode.

.TP
\fBversion\fP
Display the version number of scontrol being executed.

.TP
\fB!!\fP
Repeat the last command executed.

.TP
\fBENTITIES\fR

.TP
\fIaccount\fP
A bank account, typically specified at job submit time using the 
\fI--account=\fR option.

.TP
\fIassociation\fP
The entity used to group information consisting of four parameters:
\fIaccount\fR, \fIcluster\fR, \fIpartition\fR, and \fIuser\fR.

.TP
\fIcluster\fP
The \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR configuration file. 

.TP
\fIuser\fR
The login name.

.TP
\fBSPECIFICATIONS FOR ACCOUNTS\fR
.TP
\fIDescriptions\fP=<description>
An arbitrary string describing an account.
.TP
\fIExpediteLevel\fP=<level>
TBD.
.TP
\fINames\fP=<name>
The name of a bank account.
.TP
\fIOrganizations\fP=<org>
TBD.

.TP
\fBSPECIFICATIONS FOR CLUSTERS\fR
.TP
\fIInterfaceNode\fP=<name>
TBD. 
.TP
\fINames\fP=<name>
The name of a cluster.
This should be equal to the \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR 
configuration file for some Slurm-managed cluster. 

.TP
\fBSPECIFICATIONS FOR USERS\fR
.TP
\fIAdminLevel\fP=<level>
TBD.
.TP
\fIDefaultAccount\fP=<account>
Identify the default bank account name to be used for a job if none is 
specified at submission time.
.TP
\fIExpediteLevel\fP=<level>
TBD.
.TP
\fINames\fP=<name>
TBD.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL\-CODE\-226842.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
\fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
