.TH SBCAST "1" "April 2006" "sbcast 2.0" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sbcast \- transmit a file to the nodes allocated to a SLURM job.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsbcast\fR [\-CfpstvV] SOURCE DEST 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsbcast\fR is used to transmit a file to all nodes allocated 
to the currenly active SLURM job.
This command should only be executed from within a SLURM batch
job or within the shell spawned after a SLURM job's resource 
allocation. 
\fBSOURCE\fR is the name of a file on the current node.
\fBDEST\fR should be the fully qualified pathname for the 
file copy to be created on each node. 
\fBDEST\fR should be on a file system local to that node.
Note that parallel file systems \fImay\fR provide better performance 
than \fBsbcast\fR can provide, although performance will vary 
by file size, degree of parallelism, and network type.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-compress\fR
Compress the file being transmitted.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
If the destination file already exists, replace it.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR \fInumber\fR, \fB\-\-fanout\fR=\fInumber\fR
Specify the fanout of messages used for file transfer.
Maximum value is currently eight.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-preserve\fR
Preserves modification times, access times, and modes from the 
original file.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsize\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR=\fIsize\fR
Specify the block size used for file broadcast.
The size can have a suffix of \fIk\fR or \fIm\fR for kilobytes 
or megabytes respecitively (defaults to bytes).
This size subject to rounding and range limits to maintain 
good performance. This value may need to be set on systems 
with very limited memory.
.TP
\fB\-t\fB \fIseconds\fR, fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fIseconds\fR
Specify the message timeout in seconds.
The default value is \fIMessageTimeout\fR as reported by 
"scontrol show config".
Setting a higher value may be necessitated by relatively slow
I/O performance on the compute node disks.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provide detailed event logging through program execution.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES" 
.PP 
Some \fBsbcast\fR options may be set via environment variables. 
These environment variables, along with their corresponding options, 
are listed below. (Note: Command line options will always override 
these settings.)
.TP 20
\fBSBCAST_COMPRESS\fR
\fB\-C, \-\-compress\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_FANOUT\fR
\fB\-F\fB \fInumber\fR, fB\-\-fanout\fR=\fInumber\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_FORCE\fR
\fB\-f, \-\-force\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_PRESERVE\fR
\fB\-p, \-\-preserve\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_SIZE\fR
\fB\-s\fR \fIsize\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR=\fIsize\fR
.TP
\fBSBCAST_TIMEOUT\fR
\fB\-t\fB \fIseconds\fR, fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fIseconds\fR

.SH "EXAMPLE"

Using a batch script, transmit local file \fBmy.prog\fR to 
\fB/tmp/my.proc\fR on the local nodes and then execute it.

.nf
> cat my.job
#!/bin/bash
sbcast my.prog /tmp/my.prog
srun /tmp/my.prog

> srun \-\-nodes=8 \-\-batch my.job
srun: jobid 12345 submitted
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsrun\fR(1)
