.TH SINFO "1" "April 2003" "sinfo 0.1" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sinfo \- Used to view information about Slurm nodes and partitions.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsinfo\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsinfo\fR is used to view partition and node information for a 
system running SLURM. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBsinfo\fR.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exact\fR
If set, do not group node information on multiple nodes unless their 
configurations to be reported are identical. Otherwise cpu count, 
memory size, and disk space for nodes will be listed with the minimum 
value followed by a "+" for nodes with the same partition and state 
(e.g., "250+").
.TP
\fB\-i <seconds>\fR , \fB\-\-iterate=<seconds>\fR
Print the state on a periodic basis. 
Sleep for the indicated number of seconds between reports.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR , \fB\-\-long\fR
Print more detailed information.
.TP
\fB\-n <nodes>\fR , \fB\-\-nodes=<nodes>\fR
Print information only about the specified node(s). 
.TP
\fB\-N\fR , \fB\-\-Node\fR
Print information in a node-oriented format.
The default is to print information in a partition-oriented format.
.TP
\fB\-t <state>\fR , \fB\-\-state=<state>\fR
List nodes of a given state.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR , \fB\-\-summarize\fR
List only a partition state summary with no node state details.
.TP
\fB\-p <partition>\fR, \fB\-\-partition=<partition>\fR
Print information only about the specified partition.  
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Dipaly brief description of commands and options.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR , \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provide detailed event logging through program execution.
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
\fBnodes\fR
The names of one or more comma separated nodes. Names may be specified 
using node range expressions.
For example "linux[00-07]" would indicate eight nodes, "linux00" 
through "linux07".
.TP
\fBpartition\fR
The name of one partition.
.TP
\fBstate\fR
A valid node state. Possible values include: ALLOC, ALLOCATED, COMP, 
COMPLETING, DOWN, DRAIN, DRAINED, DRAINING, IDLE, UNK, and UNKNOWN.
A "*" suffix may be appended to any of these states to search for 
nodes in the specified state which are not responding. 
By default nodes in the specified state are reported whether they are 
responding or not.
.SH "OUTPUT"
.TP
\fBPARTITION\fR
Name of a partition. 
Note that the suffix "*" identifies the default partition.
.TP
\fBAVAIL\fR
Partition state, \fBUP\fR or \fBDOWN\fR.
.TP
\fBNODES\fR
Count of nodes with this particular configuration.
.TP
\fBSTATE\fR
State of the nodes. Note that the suffix "*" identifies nodes 
that are presently not responding.
.TP
\fBCPUS\fR
Count of CPUs (processors) on these nodes.
.TP
\fBMEMORY\fR
Size of real memory in megabytes on these nodes.
.TP
\fBTMP_DISK\fR
Size of temporary disk space in megabytes on these nodes.
.TP
\fBNODE_LIST\fR
Names of nodes associated with this configuration/partition.
.TP
\fBMAX_TIME\fR
Maximum time limit for any user job in minutes.
\fBNONE\fR is used to identify partitions without a job time limit.
.TP
\fBJOB_SIZE\fR
Minimum and maximum node count that can be allocated to any user job. 
A single number indicates the minimum and maximum node count are the 
same.
.TP
\fBROOT\fR
Is the ability to allocate resources in this partition restricted to 
user root, \fBYES\fR or \fBNO\fR.
.TP
\fBSHARE\fR
Will jobs allocated resources in this partition share those resources.
\fBNO\fR indicates resources are never shared. 
\fBFORCE\fR indicates resources are always available to be shared.
\fBYES\fR indicates resource may be shared or not per job's resource allocation.
.TP
\fBGROUPS\fR
Resource allocations in this partition are restricted to the named groups.
\fBALL\fR indicates that all groups may use this partition.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
Report basic node and partition configurations:
.br
> sinfo
.br
PARTITION AVAIL NODES STATE  NODE_LIST
.br
------------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP        8 IDLE   adev[0-7]
.br
batch*    UP        2 ALLOC  adev[8-9]
.br
                    6 IDLE   adev[10-15]
.br
 
.br
Report partition summary information:
.br
> sinfo -s
.br
PARTITION AVAIL NODES NODE_LIST
.br
------------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP        8 adev[0-7]
.br
batch*    UP        8 adev[8-15]
.br
 
.br
Report more complete information about the partition debug:
.br
> sinfo --long --partition debug
.br
PARTITION AVAIL NODES STATE MAX_TIME JOB_SIZE ROOT SHARE GROUPS NODE_LIST
.br
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP        8 IDLE      NONE     1-26 NO   NO    ALL    adev[0-7]
.br

.br
Report only those nodes that are in state DRAINED:
.br
> sinfo --state=DRAINED
.br
PARTITION AVAIL NODES STATE  NODE_LIST
.br
------------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP        2 DRAIN  adev[6-7]
.br

.br
Report node-oriented information with details and exact matches:
.br
> sinfo -Nel
.br
NODE_LIST  NODES PARTITION STATE  CPUS MEMORY TMP_DISK WEIGHT FEATURES
.br
----------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
adev[0-1]      2 debug     IDLE      2   3448    38536     16 (null)  
.br
adev[2,4-7]    5 debug     IDLE      2   3384    38536     16 (null)  
.br
adev3          1 debug     IDLE      2   3394    38536     16 (null)  
.br
adev[8-9]      2 batch     ALLOCATED 2    246    82306     16 (null)  
.br
adev[10-15]    6 batch     IDLE      2    246    82306     16 (null)  
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_reconfigure\fR(3), \fBslurm_shutdown\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_update_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_node\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_partition\fR(3)
