.TH SLURMD "1" "October 2002" "slurmctld 0.1" "Slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
slurmd \- The compute node daemon of Slurm.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmld\fR is the compute node daemon of Slurm. It monitors all tasks running
on the compute node , accepts work (tasks), launched tasks, and kill running tasks 
upon request.
.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Execute \fBslurmctld\fR as a daemon (in the background) with logging to syslog.
.TP
\fB-e <errlev>\fR
Set stderr logging to the specified level..TP
\fB-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.TP
\fB-f <file>\fR
Read configuration from the specified file.
.TP
\fB-l <errlev>\fR
Set logfile logging to the specified level.
.TP
\fB-L <file>\fR
Write log messages to the specified file.
.TP
\fB-s <errlev>\fR
Set syslog logging to the specified level.
.TP
ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIerrlev\fP
The level of error to be reported, an integer value between 0 and 7. 
Larger numbers result in more logging information. The numbers represent 
the following levels of logging:
.br
\fB0\fR
No logging of any events
.br
\fB1\fR
Log fatal errors only
.br
\fB2\fR
Log all errors
.br
\fB3\fR
Log informational messages
.br
\fB4\fR
Verbose logging of informational message
.br
\fB5,6,7\fR
Log highly detailed debugging messages
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
Pathname of a configuration or log file to use.
.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmd\fR specific 
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file. However, 
this special configuration file will not be recognized by \fBslurmctld\fR 
or the Slurm programs. If you desire changing communication ports, 
the location of the temporary file system, or other parameters used 
by other Slurm components, change the common configuration file.
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
/etc/slurm.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
