.TH SLURMCTLD "1" "August 2002" "slurmctld 0.1" "Slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
slurmctld \- The central management daemon of Slurm.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmctld\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmctld\fR is the central management daemon of Slurm. It monitors all other 
Slurm daemons and resources, accepts work (jobs), and allocates resources to 
those jobs. Given the critical functionality of \fBslurmctld\fR, there may 
be a backup server to assume these functions in the event that the primary 
server fails. 
.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Execute \fBslurmctld\fR as a daemon. By default \fBslurmctld\fR stays in 
the foreground and prints log messages to stdout.
.TP
\fB-e <errlev>\fR
Set stderr logging to the specified level..TP
\fB-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.TP
\fB-f <file>\fR
Read configuration from the specified file.
.TP
\fB-l <errlev>\fR
Set logfile logging to the specified level.
.TP
\fB-L <file>\fR
Write log messages to the specified file.
.TP
\fB-s <errlev>\fR
Set syslog logging to the specified level.
.TP
ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIerrlev\fP
The level of error to be reported, an integer value between 0 and 7. 
Larger numbers result in more logging information. The numbers represent 
the following levels of logging:
.br
\fB0\fR
No logging of any events
.br
\fB1\fR
Log fatal errors only
.br
\fB2\fR
Log all errors
.br
\fB3\fR
Log informational messages
.br
\fB4\fR
Verbose logging of informational message
.br
\fB5,6,7\fR
Log highly detailed debugging messages
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
Pathname of a configuration or log file to use.
.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmctld\fR specific 
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file. However, 
this special configuration file will not be recognized by \fBslurmd\fR 
or the Slurm programs. If you desire changing communication ports, 
the location of the temporary file system, or other parameters used 
by other Slurm components, change the common configuration file.
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
