.TH SSHARE "12" "November 2008" "sshare 1.4.0-pre4" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sshare \- Tool for listing the shares of associations to a cluster.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsshare\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsshare\fR is used to view Slurm account information.
The account information is maintained within a database with the interface 
being provided by \fBslurmdbd\fR (Slurm Database daemon).
This database can serve as a central storehouse of user and 
computer information for multiple computers at a single site.
Slurm account information is recorded based upon four parameters
that form what is referred to as an \fIassociation\fR. 
These parameters are \fIuser\fR, \fIcluster\fR, \fIpartition\fR, and 
\fIaccount\fR. \fIuser\fR is the login name.
\fIcluster\fR is the name of a Slurm managed cluster as specified by 
the \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR configuration file. 
\fIpartition\fR is the name of a Slurm partition on that cluster.
\fIaccount\fR is the bank account for a job.


.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
List all information.

.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-accounts\fR
List accounts.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBssshare\fR.
This is equivalent to the \fBhelp\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no_header\fR
No header will be added to the beginning of the output.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-parsable\fR
Output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parsable2\fR
Output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no messages other than error messages.
This is equivalent to the \fBquiet\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR
This is equivalent to the \fBreadonly\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-associations\fR
Use with show or list to display associations with the entity.
This is equivalent to the \fBassociations\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable detailed logging. 
This is equivalent to the \fBverbose\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number.
This is equivalent to the \fBversion\fR command.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.TP
\fBall\fR
Display associations.

.TP
\fBaccounts\fR
Display accounts.

.TP
\fBcluster\fR
Display cluster.

.TP
\fBhelp\fP
Display a description of sshare options and commands.

.TP
\fBno_header\fP
Display output without the header.

.TP
\fBparsable\fP
Display output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fBparsable2\fP
Display output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fBquiet\fP
Print no messages other than error messages.

.TP
\fBuid\fP
Display user.

.TP
\fBusage\fP
Display a description of sshare options and commands.

.TP
\fBuser\fP
Display user.

.TP
\fBverbose\fP
Enable detailed logging. 
This includes time\-stamps on data structures, record counts, etc.
This is an independent command with no options meant for use in interactive mode.

.TP
\fBversion\fP
Display the version number of sshare.



.SH "LIST/SHOW ACCOUNTS FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fIAccount\fP
The name of a bank account.

.RE

.SH "LIST/SHOW CLUSTER FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fICluster\fP
The name of the cluster.

.RE

.SH "LIST/SHOW USER FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fIUser\fP
The name of a user.

.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
.br
> sshare -a cluster
.br
.br
> sshare -a account
.br

.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
\fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
