.TH SSTAT "28" "January 2009" "sstat 1.4" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sstat \- Display various status information
of a running job/step.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BR "sstat " 
[\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Status information for running jobs invoked with SLURM.
.PP
The 
.BR "sstat "
command displays job status information for your analysis.
The 
.BR "sstat "
command displays information pertaining to CPU, Task, Node, Resident
Set Size (RSS) and Virtual Memory (VM).
You can tailor the output with the use of the 
\f3\-\-fields=\fP 
option to specify the fields to be shown.
.PP
For the root user, the 
.BR "sstat "
command displays job status data for any job running on the system.
.PP
For the non\-root user, the 
.BR "sstat "
command limits the display of job status data to jobs that were 
launched with their own user identifier (UID).

.TP 
\f3\-a \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-allsteps\fP
Print all steps for the given job(s) when no step is specified.

.TP 
\f3\-e \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-helpformat\fP
Print a list of fields that can be specified with the '\-\-format' option.

.TP 
\f3\-h \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-help\fP
Displays a general help message.

.TP 
\f3\-j \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-jobs\fP
Format is <job(.step)>. Stat this job step or comma-separated list of
job steps. This option is required.  The step portion will default to
step 0 if not specified, unless the --allsteps flag is set where not
specifing a step will result in all running steps to be displayed.

.TP 
\f3\-n \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-noheader\fP
No header will be added to the beginning of output. The default is to print a header.

.TP 
\f3\-o \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-format\fP,\fP \f3\-\-fields\fP
Comma seperated list of fields. (use
'\-\-helpformat' for a list of available fields).

.TP 
\f3\-p \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-parsable\fP
output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP 
\f3\-P \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-parsable2\fP
output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end

.TP 
\f3\-P \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-usage\fP
Display brief usage message.

.TP 
\f3\-v\fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-verbose\fP
Primarily for debugging purposes, report the state of various variables during processing.

.TP 
\f3\-V \fP\f3,\fP \f3\-\-version\fP
Print version.


.SS "Job Status Fields"
The following are the field options:
.RS 
.TP
\f3AveCPU\fP


.TP 
\f3AvePages\fP 


.TP
\f3AveRSS\fP 


.TP
\f3AveVMSize\fP


.TP 
\f3JobID\fP 


.TP
\f3MaxPages\fP


.TP
\f3MaxPagesNode\fP


.TP
\f3MaxPagesTask\fP


.TP
\f3MaxRSS\fP


.TP
\f3MaxRSSNode\fP


.TP
\f3MaxRSSTask\fP


.TP
\f3MaxVMSize\fP


.TP
\f3MaxVMSizeNode\fP


.TP
\f3MaxVMSizeTask\fP


.TP
\f3MinCPU\fP


.TP
\f3MinCPUNode\fP


.TP
\f3MinCPUTask\fP


.TP
\f3NTasks\fP


.TP
\f3SystemCPU\fP


.TP
\f3TotalCPU\fP



.SH "EXAMPLES"

.TP
\f3sstat --format=AveCPU,AvePages,AveRSS,AveVSize,JobID -j 11\fP
25:02.000  0K         1.37M      5.93M      9.0

.TP
\f3sstat -p --format=AveCPU,AvePages,AveRSS,AveVSize,JobID -j 11\fP
25:02.000|0K|1.37M|5.93M|9.0|

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2009 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsacct\fR(1)
