.TH "sview" "1" "SLURM 2.0" "May 2009" "SLURM Commands"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
sview \- graphical user interface to view and modify SLURM state.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
sview

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
sview can be used to view SLURM configuration, job, 
step, node and partitions state information. 
Authorized users can also modify select information.
.LP
The primary display modes are \fIJobs\fR and \fIPartitions\fR, each with a selection tab.
There is also an optional map of the nodes on the left side of the window which 
will show the nodes associated with each job or partition.
Left\-click on the tab of the display you would like to see. 
Right\-click on the tab in order to control which fields will be displayed.
.LP
Within the display window, left\-click on the header to control the sort 
order of entries (e.g. increasing or decreasing) in the diplay.
You can also left\-click and drag the headers to move them right or left in the display.
If a JobID has an arrow next to it, click on that arrow to display or hide 
information about that job's steps. 
Right\-click on a line of the display to get more information about the record.
.LP
There is an \fIAdmin Mode\fR option which permits the user root to modify many of 
the fields displayed, such as node state or job time limit.
In the mode, a \fISLURM Reconfigure\fR Action is also available.
It is recommended that \fIAdmin Mode\fR be used only while modifications are 
actively being made. 
Disable \fIAdmin Mode\fR immediately after the changes to avoid possibly making 
unintended changes. 

.SH "FILES"
.LP
.TP 15
~/.sviewrc
Your personal \fBsview\fR initializations.

.SH "NOTES"
The sview command can only be build if \fIgtk+\-2.0\fR is installed. 
Systems lacking these libraries will have SLURM installed without
the sview command.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
sinfo(1), squeue(1), scontrol(1), slurm.conf(5), 
sched_setaffinity(2), numa(3)
