.TH SINFO "1" "July 2003" "sinfo 0.2" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sinfo \- Used to view information about Slurm nodes and partitions.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsinfo\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsinfo\fR is used to view partition and node information for a 
system running SLURM. 

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBsinfo\fR.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exact\fR
If set, do not group node information on multiple nodes unless their 
configurations to be reported are identical. Otherwise cpu count, 
memory size, and disk space for nodes will be listed with the minimum 
value followed by a "+" for nodes with the same partition and state 
(e.g., "250+").
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-noheader\fR
Do not print a header on the output.
.TP
\fB\-i <seconds>\fR , \fB\-\-iterate=<seconds>\fR
Print the state on a periodic basis. 
Sleep for the indicated number of seconds between reports.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR , \fB\-\-long\fR
Print more detailed information. 
This is ignored if the \fB\-\-format\fR option is specified.
.TP
\fB\-n <nodes>\fR , \fB\-\-nodes=<nodes>\fR
Print information only about the specified node(s). 
.TP
\fB\-N\fR , \fB\-\-Node\fR
Print information in a node-oriented format.
The default is to print information in a partition-oriented format.
This is ignored if the \fB\-\-format\fR option is specified.
.TP
\fB\-o <output_format>\fR, \fB\-\-format=<output_format>\fR
Specify the information to be displayed.  
The default format is "%9P %5a %.8l %.6D %6t %N".
If the \fB\-\-summarize\fR option is specified, the default 
format is "%9P %5a %.8l %15F %N".
If the \fB\-\-long\fR option is specified, the default format is 
"%9P %5a %.8l %.8s %4r %5h %10g %.6D %11T %N". 
If the \fB\-\-Node\fR option is specified, the default format is 
"%#N %.6D %9P %6t". 
If the \fB\-\-Node\fR and \fB\-\-long\fR options are both specified, 
the default format is "%#N %.6D %9P %11T %.4c %.6m %.8d %.6w %8f".
In the above two formats the value of "#" represents the maximum 
length of an node list to be printed.

The field specifications available include: 
.br
\fB%a\fR State/availability of a partition
.br
\fB%A\fR Number of nodes by state in the format "allocated/total". 
Do not use this with a node state option ("%t" or "%T") or 
the different node states will be placed on separate lines.
.br
\fB%c\fR Number of CPUs per node
.br
\fB%d\fR Size of temporary disk space per node in megabytes
.br
\fB%D\fR Number of nodes
.br
\fB%f\fR Features associated with the nodes
.br
\fB%F\fR Number of nodes by state in the format "allocated/idle/other/total". 
Do not use this with a node state option ("%t" or "%T") or 
the different node states will be placed on separate lines.
.br
\fB%g\fR Groups which may use the nodes
.br
\fB%h\fR Jobs may share nodes, "YES", "NO", or "FORCE"
.br
\fB%l\fR Maximum time for any job in the format "days:hours:minutes:seconds"
.br
\fB%m\fR Size of memory per node in megabytes
.br
\fB%N\fR List of node names
.br
\fB%P\fR Partition name
.br
\fB%r\fR Only user root may initiate jobs, "YES" or "NO"
.br
\fB%s\fR Maximum job size in nodes
.br
\fB%t\fR State of nodes, compact form
.br
\fB%T\fR State of nodes, extended form
.br
\fB%w\fR Scheduling weight of the nodes
.br
\fB%.<*>\fR right justification of the field
.br 
\fB%<Number><*>\fR size of field
.TP
\fB\-t <state>\fR , \fB\-\-state=<state>\fR
List nodes of a given state.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR , \fB\-\-summarize\fR
List only a partition state summary with no node state details.
This is ignored if the \fB\-\-format\fR option is specified.
.TP
\fB\-p <partition>\fR, \fB\-\-partition=<partition>\fR
Print information only about the specified partition.  
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Dipaly brief description of commands and options.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR , \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Provide detailed event logging through program execution.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.TP
\fBnodes\fR
The names of one or more comma separated nodes. Names may be specified 
using node range expressions.
For example "linux[00-07]" would indicate eight nodes, "linux00" 
through "linux07".
.TP
\fBpartition\fR
The name of one partition.
.TP
\fBstate\fR
A valid node state. Possible values include: ALLOC, ALLOCATED, COMP, 
COMPLETING, DOWN, DRAIN, DRAINED, DRAINING, IDLE, UNK, and UNKNOWN.
A "*" suffix may be appended to any of these states to search for 
nodes in the specified state which are not responding. 
By default nodes in the specified state are reported whether they are 
responding or not.
.SH "OUTPUT"
.TP
\fBAVAIL\fR
Partition state, \fBUP\fR or \fBDOWN\fR.
.TP
\fBCPUS\fR
Count of CPUs (processors) on these nodes.
.TP
\fBGROUPS\fR
Resource allocations in this partition are restricted to the named groups.
\fBALL\fR indicates that all groups may use this partition.
.TP
\fBJOB_SIZE\fR
Minimum and maximum node count that can be allocated to any user job. 
A single number indicates the minimum and maximum node count are the 
same.
\fBINFINITE\fR is used to identify partitions without a maximum node count.
.TP
\fBMAX_TIME\fR
Maximum time limit for any user job in days:hours:minutes:seconds.
\fBINFINITE\fR is used to identify partitions without a job time limit.
.TP
\fBMEMORY\fR
Size of real memory in megabytes on these nodes.
.TP
\fBNODE_LIST\fR
Names of nodes associated with this configuration/partition.
.TP
\fB#NODES\fR
Count of nodes with this particular configuration.
.TP
\fB#NODES(A/T)\fR
Count of nodes with this particular configuration by node 
state in the form "available/total".
.TP
\fB#NODES(A/I/O/T)\fR
Count of nodes with this particular configuration by node
state in the form "available/idle/other/total".
.TP
\fBPARTITION\fR
Name of a partition. 
Note that the suffix "*" identifies the default partition.
.TP
\fBROOT\fR
Is the ability to allocate resources in this partition restricted to 
user root, \fBYES\fR or \fBNO\fR.
.TP
\fBSHARE\fR
Will jobs allocated resources in this partition share those resources.
\fBNO\fR indicates resources are never shared. 
\fBFORCE\fR indicates resources are always available to be shared.
\fBYES\fR indicates resource may be shared or not per job's resource 
allocation.
.TP
\fBSTATE\fR
State of the nodes. Note that the suffix "*" identifies nodes 
that are presently not responding.
.TP
\fBTMP_DISK\fR
Size of temporary disk space in megabytes on these nodes.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Some \fBsinfo\fR options may be set via environment variables. These 
environment variables, along with their corresponding options, are listed 
below. (Note: Commandline options will always override these settings.)
.TP 20
SINFO_FORMAT
\fB\-o <output_format>, \-\-format=<output_format>\fR
.TP
SINFO_PARTITION
\fB\-p <partition>, \-\-partition=<partition>\fR

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
Report basic node and partition configurations:
.br
> sinfo
.br
PARTITION AVAIL MAX_TIME #NODES STATE  NODE_LIST
.br
------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP       30:00     8 IDLE   adev[0-7]
.br
batch*    UP    INFINITE     2 ALLOC  adev[8-9]
.br
batch*    UP    INFINITE     6 IDLE   adev[10-15]
.br
 
.br
Report partition summary information:
.br
> sinfo -s
.br
PARTITION AVAIL MAX_TIME #NODES(A/I/O/T) NODE_LIST
.br
---------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP       30:00 0/8/0/8         adev[0-7]
.br
batch*    UP    INFINITE 2/6/0/8         adev[8-15]
.br
 
.br
Report more complete information about the partition debug:
.br
> sinfo --long --partition=debug
.br
PARTITION AVAIL MAX_TIME JOB_SIZE ROOT SHARE GROUPS #NODES STATE NODE_LIST
.br
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP       30:00        8 NO   NO    ALL    8      IDLE  dev[0-7]
.br

.br
Report only those nodes that are in state DRAINED:
.br
> sinfo --state=DRAINED
.br
PARTITION AVAIL NODES STATE  NODE_LIST
.br
--------------------------------------
.br
debug     UP        2 DRAIN  adev[6-7]
.br

.br
Report node-oriented information with details and exact matches:
.br
> sinfo -Nel
.br
NODE_LIST  #NODES PARTITION STATE  CPUS MEMORY TMP_DISK WEIGHT FEATURES
.br
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
adev[0-1]       2 debug     IDLE      2   3448    38536     16 (null)  
.br
adev[2,4-7]     5 debug     IDLE      2   3384    38536     16 (null)  
.br
adev3           1 debug     IDLE      2   3394    38536     16 (null)  
.br
adev[8-9]       2 batch     ALLOCATED 2    246    82306     16 (null)  
.br
adev[10-15]     6 batch     IDLE      2    246    82306     16 (null)  
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1), 
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_reconfigure\fR(3), \fBslurm_shutdown\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_update_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_node\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_partition\fR(3)
