\." $Id$
.\"
.TH SRUN "1" "December 2006" "srun 1.2" "slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
srun \- run parallel jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B srun
[\fIOPTIONS\fR...] \fIexecutable \fR[\fIargs\fR...]
.br
.B srun
\-\-batch [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] job_script
.br
.B srun
\-\-allocate [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [job_script]
.br
.B srun
\-\-attach=jobid
.SH DESCRIPTION
Allocate resources and optionally initiate parallel jobs on
clusters managed by SLURM.
.TP
Parallel run options:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-ntasks\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Specify the number of processes to run. Request that \fBsrun\fR
allocate \fIntasks\fR processes.  The default is one process per
node, but note that the \fB\-c\fR parameter will change this default.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR=\fIncpus\fR
Request that \fIncpus\fR be allocated \fBper process\fR. This may be
useful if the job is multithreaded and requires more than one cpu
per task for optimal performance. The default is one cpu per process.
If \fB\-c\fR is specified without \fB\-n\fR as many 
tasks will be allocated per node as possible while satisfying
the \fB\-c\fR restriction. 
.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Request that no more than \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each node.
This is similiar to using \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR=\fIncpus\fR
but does not require knowledge of the actual number of cpus on
each node.  In some cases, it is more convenient to be able to
request that no more than a specific number of ntasks be invoked
on each node.  Examples of this include submitting
a hybrid MPI/OpenMP app where only one MPI "task/rank" should be
assigned to each node while allowing the OpenMP portion to utilize
all of the parallelism present in the node, or submitting a single
setup/cleanup/monitoring job to each node of a pre\-existing  
allocation as one step in a larger job script.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nodes\fR=\fIminnodes\fR[\-\fImaxnodes\fR]
Request that a minimum of \fIminnodes\fR nodes be allocated to this job.
The scheduler may decide to launch the job on more than \fIminnodes\fR nodes.
A limit on the maximum node count may be specified with \fImaxnodes\fR
(e.g. "\-\-nodes=2\-4").  The minimum and maximum node count may be the
same to specify a specific number of nodes (e.g. "\-\-nodes=2\-2" will ask
for two and ONLY two nodes).  The partition's node 
limits supersede those of the job. If a job's node limits are completely 
outside of the range permitted for its associated partition, the job 
will be left in a PENDING state. Note that the environment 
variable \fBSLURM_NNODES\fR will be set to the count of nodes actually 
allocated to the job. See the \fBENVIRONMENT VARIABLES \fR section 
for more information.  If \fB\-N\fR is not specified, the default
behaviour is to allocate enough nodes to satisfy the requirements of
the \fB\-n\fR and \fB\-c\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-relative\fR=\fIn\fR
Run a job step relative to node \fIn\fR of the current allocation. 
This option may be used to spread several job steps out among the
nodes of the current job. If \fB\-r\fR is used, the current job
step will begin at node \fIn\fR of the allocated nodelist, where
the first node is considered node 0.  The \fB\-r\fR option is not 
permitted along with \fB\-w\fR or \fB\-x\fR, and will be silently
ignored when not running within a prior allocation (i.e. when
SLURM_JOBID is not set). The default for \fIn\fR is 0. If the 
value of \fB\-\-nodes\fR exceeds the number of nodes identified 
with the \fB\-\-relative\fR option, a warning message will be 
printed and the \fB\-\-relative\fR option will take precedence.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR=\fIpartition\fR
Request resources from partition "\fIpartition\fR." Partitions
are created by the slurm administrator, who also identify one 
of those partitions as the default. 
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-dependency\fR=\fIjobid\fR
Defer initiation of this job until the specified jobid
has completed execution.  Many jobs can share the same 
dependency and these jobs may belong to different users.
The value may be changed after job submission using the 
\fBscontrol\fR command.
.TP
\fB\-\-nice\fR[=\fIadjustment]\fR
Run the job with an adjusted scheduling priority. 
With no adjustment value the scheduling priority is decreased 
by 100. The adjustment range is from \-10000 (highest priority)
to 10000 (lowest priority). Only privileged users can specify 
a negative adjustment. NOTE: This option is presently 
ignored if \fISchedulerType=sched/maui\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-multi\-prog\fR
Run a job with different programs and different arguments for 
each task. In this case, the executable program specified is 
actually a configuration file specifying the executable and 
arguments for each task. See \fBMULTIPLE PROGRAM CONFIGURATION\fR
below for details on the configuration file contents. 

.TP
\fB\-\-begin\fR=\fItime\fR
Defer initiation of this job until the specified time.
It accepts times of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR to run a job at 
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
(If that time is already past, the next day is assumed.) 
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, or 
\fIteatime\fR (4pm) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed 
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for running in the morning or the evening.  
You can also say what day the job will be run, by giving 
a date in the form \fImonth\-name\fR day with an optional year,
or giving a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR 
or \fIDD.MM.YY\fR. You can also 
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR, \fIdays\fR, or \fIweeks\fR 
and you can tell SLURM to run the job today with the keyword
\fItoday\fR and to run the job tomorrow with the keyword
\fItomorrow\fR.
The value may be changed after job submission using the
\fBscontrol\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-account\fR=\fIaccount\fR
Change resource use by this job to specified account.
The \fIaccount\fR is an arbitrary string. The may 
be changed after job submission using the \fBscontrol\fR 
command.

.TP
\fB\-\-comment\fR
An arbitrary comment.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR=\fIminutes\fR
Establish a time limit to terminate the job after the specified number of 
minutes. If the job's time limit exceeds the partition's time limit, the 
job will be left in a PENDING state. The default value is the partition's 
time limit. When the time limit is reached, the job's processes are sent 
SIGTERM followed by SIGKILL. The interval between signals is specified by 
the SLURM configuration parameter \fBKillWait\fR. A time limit of 0 minutes
indicates that an infinite timelimit should be used.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-chdir\fR=\fIpath\fR
have the remote processes do a chdir to \fIpath\fR before beginning
execution. The default is to chdir to the current working directory
of the \fBsrun\fR process.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-immediate\fR
exit if resources are not immediately
available. By default, \fB\-\-immediate\fR is off, and
.B srun
will block until resources become available.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-no\-kill\fR
Do not automatically terminate a job of one of the nodes it has been 
allocated fails.  This option is only recognized on a job allocation, 
not for the submission of individual job steps. 
The job will assume all responsibilities for fault\-tolerance. The 
active job step (MPI job) will almost certainly suffer a fatal error, 
but subsequent job steps may be run if this option is specified. The
default action is to terminate job upon node failure. Note that
\fB\-\-batch\fR jobs will be re\-queued if a node failure occurs in the 
process of initiating it.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-kill\-on\-bad\-exit\fR
Terminate a job if any task exits with a non\-zero exit code.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-share\fR
The job can share nodes with other running jobs. This may result in faster job 
initiation and higher system utilization, but lower application performance.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-overcommit\fR
overcommit resources. Normally,
.B srun
will not allocate more than one process per cpu. By specifying
\fB\-\-overcommit\fR you are explicitly allowing more than one process
per cpu. However no more than \fBMAX_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR tasks are 
permitted to execute per node.
./"NOTE: Do not document feature until user release mechanism is available.
./".TP
./"\-H, \-\-hold
./"Specify the job is to be submitted in a held state (priority of zero).
./"A held job can now be released using scontrol to reset its priority.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-threads\fR=\fInthreads\fR
Request that 
.B srun
use \fInthreads\fR to initiate and control the parallel job. The 
default value is the smaller of 32 or the number of nodes allocated.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR
prepend task number to lines of stdout/err. Normally, stdout and stderr
from remote tasks is line\-buffered directly to the stdout and stderr of
\fBsrun\fR.
The \fB\-\-label\fR option will prepend lines of output with the remote
task id.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unbuffered\fR
do not line buffer stdout from remote tasks. This option cannot be used
with \fI\-\-label\fR. 
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-distribution\fR=
(\fIblock\fR|\fIcyclic\fR|\fIhostfile\fR|\fIplane=<options>\fR)
Specify an alternate distribution method for remote processes.
.RS
.TP
.B block
The block method of distribution will allocate processes in\-order to
the cpus on a node. If the number of processes exceeds the number of 
cpus on all of the nodes in the allocation then all nodes will be 
utilized. For example, consider an allocation of three nodes each with 
two cpus. A four\-process block distribution request will distribute 
those processes to the nodes with processes one and two on the first 
node, process three on the second node, and process four on the third node.  
Block distribution is the default behavior if the number of tasks 
exceeds the number of nodes requested.
.TP
.B cyclic
The cyclic method distributes processes in a round\-robin fashion across
the allocated nodes. That is, process one will be allocated to the first
node, process two to the second, and so on. This is the default behavior
if the number of tasks is no larger than the number of nodes requested.
.TP
.B plane
The tasks are distributed in blocks of a specified size.
The options include a number representing the size of the task block.
This is followed by an optional specification of the task distribution 
scheme within a block of tasks and between the blocks of tasks.
For more details (including examples and diagrams), please see
http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/mc_support.html and
http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/dist_plane.html.
.TP
.B hostfile
The hostfile method of distribution will allocate processes in\-order as 
listed in file designated by the environment variable SLURM_HOSTFILE.  If
this variable is listed it will over ride any other method specified. 
If not set the method will default to block.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-job\-name\fR=\fIjobname\fR
Specify a name for the job. The specified name will appear along with
the job id number when querying running jobs on the system. The default
is the supplied \fBexecutable\fR program's name.
.TP
\fB\-\-mpi\fR=\fImpi_type\fR
Identify the type of MPI to be used. May result in unique initiation 
procedures.
.RS
.TP
.B list
Lists avaliable mpi types to choose from.
.TP
.B lam
Initiates one 'lamd' process per node and establishes necessary
environment variables for LAM/MPI.
.TP
.B mpich\-gm
For use with Myrinet.
.TP
.B mvapich
For use with Infiniband.
.TP
.B none
No special MPI processing. This is the default and works with 
many other versions of MPI.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-ctrl\-comm\-ifhn\fR=\fIaddr\fR
Specify the address or hostname to be used for PMI communications only
(task communication and synchronization primitives for MPCIH2).
Defaults to hostname (response from getnodename function).
Use of this is required if a DNS lookup can not be performed on 
the hostname or if that address is blocked from the compute nodes.
.TP
\fB\-\-jobid\fR=\fIid\fR
Initiate a job step under an already allocated job with job id \fIid\fR.
Using this option will cause \fBsrun\fR to behave exactly as if the
SLURM_JOBID environment variable was set.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-requeue\fR
Specifies that the batch job is not requeue. 
Setting this option will prevent system administrators from being able 
to restart the job (for example, after a scheduled downtime).
When a job is requeued, the batch script is initiated from its beginning.
This option is only applicable to batch job submission (see \fB\-\-batch\fR).
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fImode\fR
Specify the mode for stdout redirection. By default in interactive mode,
.B srun
collects stdout from all tasks and line buffers this output to
the attached terminal. With \fB\-\-output\fR stdout may be redirected
to a file, to one file per task, or to /dev/null. See section 
\fBIO Redirection\fR below for the various forms of \fImode\fR.
If the specified file already exists, it will be overwritten.
.br

If \fB\-\-error\fR is not also specified on the command line, both
stdout and stderr will directed to the file specified by \fB\-\-output\fR.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fR=\fImode\fR
Specify how stdin is to redirected. By default,
.B srun
redirects stdin from the terminal all tasks. See \fBIO Redirection\fR
below for more options.
For OS X, the poll() function does not support stdin, so input from 
a terminal is not possible.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-error\fR=\fImode\fR
Specify how stderr is to be redirected. By default in interactive mode,
.B srun
redirects stderr to the same file as stdout, if one is specified. The
\fB\-\-error\fR option is provided to allow stdout and stderr to be
redirected to different locations.
See \fBIO Redirection\fR below for more options.
If the specified file already exists, it will be overwritten.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-batch\fR
Submit in "batch mode." \fBsrun\fR will make a copy of the \fIexecutable\fR 
file (a script) and submit the request for execution when resouces are 
available. \fBsrun\fR will terminate after the request has been submitted. 
The \fIexecutable\fR file will run on the first node allocated to the 
job and must contain \fBsrun\fR commands to initiate parallel tasks.
stdin will be redirected from /dev/null, stdout and stderr will be
redirected to a file (default is \fIjobname\fR.out or \fIjobid\fR.out in
current working directory, see \fB\-o\fR for other IO options).
Note that if the slurm daemons are cold\-started, jobid values will be 
reused. Plan accordingly to avoid over\-writing output and error files. 
\fIexecutable\fR must be specified using either a fully qualified 
pathname or its pathname will be relative to the current working directory. 
The search path will not be used to locate the file. \fIexecutable\fR 
will be interpreted by the users default shell unless the file begins 
with "#!" followed by the fully qualified pathname of a valid shell.
Note that batch jobs will be re\-queued if a node fails while it is being 
initiated. 

Srun commandline options can also be inserted into the script by prefacing 
the option with #SLURM. Multiple options can be on one line or multiple lines. 
i.e.

.br 
#SLURM \-N 2 \-n 2
.br 
#SLURM \-\-mpi=lam
.br

This is run the script on 2 nodes, with 2 procs with mpi type lam.  
All commandline options are able to be set inside the script with the 
exception of the mode (which has already been set since to run a batch 
script you are in batch mode).
.br
Options on the command line take precedence over options in the batch 
script, which in turn take precedence over exiting environmement variables.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose operation. Multiple \fB\-v\fR's will further increase the verbosity of
\fBsrun\fR. By default only errors will be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-slurmd\-debug\fR=\fIlevel\fR
Specify a debug level for slurmd(8). \fIlevel\fR may be an integer value
between 0 [quiet, only errors are displayed] and 4 [verbose operation]. 
The slurmd debug information is copied onto the stderr of
the job. By default only errors are displayed. 
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-wait\fR=\fIseconds\fR
Specify how long to wait after the first task terminates before terminating
all remaining tasks. A value of 0 indicates an unlimited wait (a warning will
be issued after 60 seconds). The default value is set by the WaitTime
parameter in the slurm configuration file (see \fBslurm.conf(5)\fR). This
option can be useful to insure that a job is terminated in a timely fashion
in the event that one or more tasks terminate prematurely.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quit\-on\-interrupt\fR
Quit immediately on single SIGINT (Ctrl\-C). Use of this option
disables the status feature normally available when \fBsrun\fR receives 
a single Ctrl\-C and causes \fBsrun\fR to instead immediately terminate the
running job. 
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-disable\-status\fR
Disable the display of task status when srun receives a single SIGINT
(Ctrl\-C). Instead immediately forward the SIGINT to the running job.
A second Ctrl\-C in one second will forcibly terminate the job and
\fBsrun\fR will immediately exit. May also be set via the environment
variable SLURM_DISABLE_STATUS.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Quiet operation. Suppress informational messages. Errors will still
be displayed.
.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR=\fItype\fR
Notify user by email when certain event types occur. 
Valid \fItype\fR values are BEGIN, END, FAIL, ALL (any state change). 
The user to be notified is indicated with \fB\-\-mail\-user\fR. 
.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-user\fR=\fIuser\fR
User to receive email notification of state changes as defined by 
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR.
The default value is the submitting user.
.TP
\fB\-\-uid\fR=\fIuser\fR
Attempt to submit and/or run a job as \fIuser\fR instead of the
invoking user id. The invoking user's credentials will be used
to check access permissions for the target partition. User root
may use this option to run jobs as a normal user in a RootOnly
partition for example. If run as root, \fBsrun\fR will drop
its permissions to the uid specified after node allocation is
successful. \fIuser\fR may be the user name or numerical user ID.
.TP
\fB\-\-gid\fR=\fIgroup\fR
If \fBsrun\fR is run as root, and the \fB\-\-gid\fR option is used, 
submit the job with \fIgroup\fR's group access permissions.  \fIgroup\fR 
may be the group name or the numerical group ID.
.TP
\fB\-\-core\fR=\fItype\fR
Adjust corefile format for parallel job. If possible, srun will set
up the environment for the job such that a corefile format other than
full core dumps is enabled. If run with type = "list", srun will
print a list of supported corefile format types to stdout and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-propagate\fR[=\fIrlimits\fR]
Allows users to specify which of the modifiable (soft) resource limits
to propagate to the compute nodes and apply to their jobs.  If
\fIrlimits\fR is not specified, then all resource limits will be
propagated.
.TP
\fB\-\-prolog\fR=\fIexecutable\fR
\fBsrun\fR will run \fIexecutable\fR just before launching the job step.
The command line arguments for \fIexecutable\fR will be the command
and arguments of the job step.  If \fIexecutable\fR is "none", then
no prolog will be run.  This parameter overrides the SrunProlog
parameter in slurm.conf.
.TP
\fB\-\-epilog\fR=\fIexecutable\fR
\fBsrun\fR will run \fIexecutable\fR just after the job step completes.
The command line arguments for \fIexecutable\fR will be the command
and arguments of the job step.  If \fIexecutable\fR is "none", then
no epilog will be run.  This parameter overrides the SrunEpilog
parameter in slurm.conf.
.TP
\fB\-\-task\-prolog\fR=\fIexecutable\fR
The \fBslurmd\fR daemon will run \fIexecutable\fR just before launching 
each task. This will be executed after any TaskProlog parameter 
in slurm.conf is executed.
Besides the normal environment variables, this has SLURM_TASK_PID
available to identify the process ID of the task being started.
Standard output from this program of the form
"export NAME=value" will be used to set environment variables
for the task being spawned.
.TP
\fB\-\-task\-epilog\fR=\fIexecutable\fR
The \fBslurmd\fR daemon will run \fIexecutable\fR just after each task
terminates. This will be before after any TaskEpilog parameter      
in slurm.conf is executed. This is meant to be a very short\-lived 
program. If it fails to terminate within a few seconds, it will 
be killed along with any descendant processes.
.PP
Allocate options:
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-allocate\fR
allocate resources and spawn a shell. When \fB\-\-allocate\fR is specified to
\fBsrun\fR, no remote tasks are started. Instead a subshell is started that 
has access to the allocated resources. Multiple jobs can then be run on the 
same cpus from within this subshell. See \fBAllocate Mode\fR below.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-shell\fR
immediately exit after allocating resources instead of spawning a
shell when used with the \fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-allocate\fR option.
.PP
Attach to running job:
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-attach\fR=\fIid\fR
This option will attach \fBsrun\fR
to a running job with job id = \fIid\fR. Provided that the calling user
has access to that running job, stdout and stderr will be redirected to the
current session (assuming that the tasks' stdout and stderr are not connected
directly to files).  stdin is not connected to the remote tasks, and signals
are not forwarded unless the \fB\-\-join\fR parameter is also specified.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-join\fR
Used in conjunction with \fB\-\-attach\fR to specify that stdin should
also be connected to the remote tasks (assuming that the remote tasks'
stdin are not directly connected to files), and signals sent to \fBsrun\fR
will be forwarded to the remote tasks.  
.PP
Constraint Options. The following options all put constraints on the nodes
that may be considered for the job:
.TP
\fB\-\-mincpus\fR=\fIn\fR
Specify a minimum number of logical cpus/processors per node.
.TP
\fB\-\-minsockets\fR=\fIn\fR
Specify a minimum number of sockets (physical processors) per node.
.TP
\fB\-\-mincores\fR=\fIn\fR
Specify a minimum number of cores per socket.
.TP
\fB\-\-minthreads\fR=\fIn\fR
Specify a minimum number of threads per core.
.TP
\fB\-\-mem\fR=\fIMB\fR
Specify a minimum amount of real memory.
.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\fR=\fIMB\fR
Specify a minimum amount of temporary disk space.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-constraint\fR=\fIlist\fR
Specify a list of constraints. 
The constraints are features that have been assigned to the nodes by 
the slurm administrator. 
The \fIlist\fR of constraints may include multiple features separated 
by ampersand (AND) and/or vertical bar (OR) operators.
For example: \fB\-\-constraint="opteron&video"\fR or 
\fB\-\-constraint="fast|faster"\fR.
If no nodes have the requested features, then the job will be rejected 
by the slurm job manager.
.TP
\fB\-\-contiguous\fR
Demand a contiguous range of nodes. The default is "yes". Specify
\-\-contiguous=no if a contiguous range of nodes is not a constraint.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-nodelist\fR=\fIhost1,host2,...\fR or \fIfilename\fR
Request a specific list of hosts. The job will contain \fIat least\fR
these hosts. The list may be specified as a comma\-separated list of
hosts, a range of hosts (host[1\-5,7,...] for example), or a filename.
The host list will be assumed to be a filename if it contains a "/"
character.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR=\fIhost1,host2,...\fR or \fIfilename\fR
Request that a specific list of hosts not be included in the resources 
allocated to this job. The host list will be assumed to be a filename 
if it contains a "/"character.

.PP
Affinity/Multi\-core Options. Support for these options are configuration 
dependent. 
The task/affinity plugin must be configured.
In addition either select/linear or select/cons_res plugin must be 
configured.
If select/cons_res is configured, it must have a parameter of CR_Core, 
CR_Core_Memory, CR_Socket, or CR_Socket_Memory. 

.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fB\-\-extra\-node\-info\fR=\fIsockets\fR[:\fIcores\fR[:\fIthreads\fR]]
Request a specific allocation of resources with details as to the
number and type of computational resources within a cluster:
number of sockets (or physical processors) per node,
cores per socket, and threads per core.
The total amount of resources being requested is the product of all of
the terms.
As with \-\-nodes, each value can be a single number or a range (e.g. min\-max).
An asterisk (*) can be used as a placeholder indicating that all available
resources of that type are to be utilized.
As with nodes, the individual levels can also be specified in separate
options if desired:
.nf
    \fB\-\-sockets\-per\-node\fR=\fIsockets\fR
    \fB\-\-cores\-per\-socket\fR=\fIcores\fR
    \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR=\fIthreads\fR
.fi
When the task/affinity plugin is enabled,
specifying an allocation in this manner also instructs SLURM to use
a CPU affinity mask to guarantee the request is filled as specified.

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-socket\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Request that no more than \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each socket.
Similar to \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR except at the socket level
instead of the node level.  Masks will automatically be generated
to bind the tasks to specific sockets unless \fB\-\-cpu_bind=none\fR
is specified.
NOTE: This option is not supported unless \fISelectType=CR_Socket\fR 
or \fISelectType=CR_Socket_Memory\fR is configured.
.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR=\fIntasks\fR
Request that no more than \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each core.
Similar to \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR except at the core level
instead of the node level.  Masks will automatically be generated
to bind the tasks to specific core unless \fB\-\-cpu_bind=none\fR
is specified.
NOTE: This option is not supported unless \fISelectType=CR_Core\fR
or \fISelectType=CR_Core_Memory\fR is configured.
.TP
\fB\-\-hint\fR=\fItype\fR
Bind tasks according to application hints
.RS
.TP
.B compute_bound
Select settings for compute bound applications:
use all cores in each physical CPU
.TP
.B memory_bound
Select settings for memory bound applications:
use only one core in each physical CPU
.TP
.B [no]multithread
[don't] use extra threads with in-core multi-threading
which can benefit communication intensive applications
.B help
show this help message
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-cpu_bind\fR=[{\fIquiet,verbose\fR},]\fItype\fR
Bind tasks to CPUs
.RS
.TP
.B q[uiet]
quietly bind before task runs (default)
.TP
.B v[erbose]
verbosely report binding before task runs
.TP
.B no[ne]
don't bind tasks to CPUs (default)
.TP
.B rank
bind by task rank
.TP
.B map_cpu:<list>
bind by mapping CPU IDs to tasks as specified
where <list> is <cpuid1>,<cpuid2>,...<cpuidN>.
CPU IDs are interpreted as decimal values unless they are preceded
with '0x' in which case they interpreted as hexadecimal values.
.TP
.B mask_cpu:<list>
bind by setting CPU masks on tasks as specified
where <list> is <mask1>,<mask2>,...<maskN>.
CPU masks are \fBalways\fR interpreted as hexadecimal values but can be
preceded with an optional '0x'.
.TP
.B sockets
auto\-generated masks bind to sockets
.TP
.B cores
auto\-generated masks bind to cores
.TP
.B threads
auto\-generated masks bind to threads
.TP
.B help
show this help message
.RE

To have SLURM always report on the selected CPU binding for all srun commands
executed in a shell, you can also enable verbose mode separately from
the command line with:
.PP
.nf
        setenv SLURM_CPU_BIND verbose
.fi
.PP
Note that the SLURM_CPU_BIND environment variable will propagate into the
tasks' environment in order to perform binding in batch submissions.
If you do not wish to propagate \-\-cpu_bind to successive srun commands,
simply clear the variable in the task's script before executing srun:
.PP
.nf
        unsetenv SLURM_CPU_BIND
.fi
.PP
In addition, to SLURM_CPU_BIND, the following informational environment
variables are also set when SLURM_CPU_BIND is in use:
.nf
        SLURM_CPU_BIND_VERBOSE
        SLURM_CPU_BIND_TYPE
        SLURM_CPU_BIND_LIST
.fi
.PP
When using \-\-cpus\-per\-task to run multithreaded tasks, be aware that
CPU binding is inherited from the parent of the process.  This means that
the multithreaded task should either specify or clear the CPU binding
itself to avoid having all threads of the multithreaded task use the same
mask/CPU as the parent.  Alternatively, fat masks (masks which specify more 
than one allowed CPU) could be used for the tasks in order to provide
multiple CPUs for the multithreaded tasks.

.PP
Affinity/Multi\-core Options (when the task/affinity plugin is enabled and 
the NUMA memory functions are available):
.TP
\fB\-\-mem_bind\fR=[{\fIquiet,verbose\fR},]\fItype\fR
Bind tasks to memory. \fBNote that the resolution of CPU and memory binding 
may differ on some architectures.\fR For example, CPU binding may be performed 
at the level of the cores within a processor while memory binding will 
be performed at the level of nodes, where the definition of "nodes" 
may differ from system to system. \fBThe use of any type other than 
"none" or "local" is not recommended.\fR
If you want greater control, try running a simple test code with the 
options "\-\-cpu_bind=verbose,none \-\-mem_bind=verbose,none" to determine 
the specific configuration.
.RS
.TP
.B q[uiet]
quietly bind before task runs (default)
.TP
.B v[erbose]
verbosely report binding before task runs
.TP
.B no[ne]
don't bind tasks to memory (default)
.TP
.B rank
bind by task rank (not recommended)
.TP
.B local
Use memory local to the processor in use
.TP
.B map_mem:<list>
bind by mapping a node's memory to tasks as specified
where <list> is <cpuid1>,<cpuid2>,...<cpuidN>.
CPU IDs are interpreted as decimal values unless they are preceded
with '0x' in which case they interpreted as hexadecimal values
(not recommended)
.TP
.B mask_mem:<list>
bind by setting memory masks on tasks as specified
where <list> is <mask1>,<mask2>,...<maskN>.
memory masks are \fBalways\fR interpreted as hexadecimal values.
Note that masks must be preceded with a '0x' if they don't begin
with [0-9] so they are seen as numerical values by srun.
.TP
.B help
show this help message
.RE
                                                                                  
To have SLURM always report on the selected memory binding for all srun commands
executed in a shell, you can also enable verbose mode separately from
the command line with:
.PP
.nf
        setenv SLURM_MEM_BIND verbose
.fi
.PP
Note that the SLURM_MEM_BIND environment variable will propagate into the
tasks' environment in order to perform binding in batch submissions.
If you do not wish to propagate \-\-mem_bind to successive srun commands,
simply clear the variable in the task's script before executing srun:
.PP
.nf
        unsetenv SLURM_MEM_BIND
.fi
.PP
In addition, to SLURM_MEM_BIND, the following informational environment
variables are also set when SLURM_MEM_BIND is in use:
.nf
        SLURM_MEM_BIND_VERBOSE
        SLURM_MEM_BIND_TYPE
        SLURM_MEM_BIND_LIST
.fi
.PP
See the \fBENVIRONMENT VARIABLES\fR section for a more detailed description
of the individual SLURM_CPU_BIND* and SLURM_MEM_BIND* variables.
                                                                                  
.PP
The following options support AIX systems, but may be applicable to 
other systems as well. Since POE is used to launch tasks, these 
options are not normally used or are specified using the \fBSLURM_NETWORK\fR
environment variable.
.TP
\fB\-\-network\fR=\fItype\fR
Specify the communication protocol to be used. 
The interpretation of \fItype\fR is system dependent. 
For systems with an IBM Federation switch, the following 
comma\-separated and case insensitive types are recongnized:
\fBIP\fR (the default is user\-space), \fBSN_ALL\fR, \fBSN_SINGLE\fR, 
\fBBULK_XFER\fR and adapter names. For more information, on 
IBM systems see \fIpoe\fR documenation on the environment variables 
\fBMP_EUIDEVICE\fR and \fBMP_USE_BULK_XFER\fR.

.PP
The following options support Blue Gene systems, but may be 
applicable to other systems as well.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-geometry\fR=\fIXxYxZ\fR
Specify the geometry requirements for the job. The three numbers 
represent the required geometry giving dimensions in the X, Y and 
Z directions. For example "\-\-geometry=2x3x4", specifies a block 
of nodes having 2 x 3 x 4 = 24 nodes (actually base partitions on 
Blue Gene).

.TP
\fB\-\-conn\-type\fR=\fItype\fR
Require the partition connection type to be of a certain type.  
On Blue Gene the acceptable of \fItype\fR are MESH, TORUS and NAV.  
If NAV, or if not set, then SLURM will try to fit a TORUS else MESH.
You should not normally set this option.
SLURM will normally allocate a TORUS if possible for a given geometry.

.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-rotate\fR
Disables rotation of the job's requested geometry in order to fit an 
appropriate partition.
By default the specified geometry can rotate in three dimensions.

.TP
\fB\-\-reboot\fR
Force the allocated nodes to reboot before starting the job.

.TP
\fB\-\-blrts\-image\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path to blrts image for bluegene block. 
Default from \fIblugene.conf\fR if not set.

.TP
\fB\-\-linux\-image\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path to linux image for bluegene block.
Default from \fIblugene.conf\fR if not set.

.TP
\fB\-\-mloader\-image\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path to mloader image for bluegene block.
Default from \fIblugene.conf\fR if not set.

.TP
\fB\-\-ramdisk\-image\fR=\fIpath\fR
Path to ramdisk image for bluegene block.
Default from \fIblugene.conf\fR if not set.

.PP
Help options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Display verbose help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Display brief help message and exit.

.PP
Other options
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.

.PP
Unless the \fB\-a\fR (\fB\-\-attach\fR) or \fB\-A\fR (\fB\-\-allocate\fR)
options are specified (see \fBAllocate mode\fR and \fBAttaching to jobs\fR
below),
.B srun
will submit the job request to the slurm job controller, then initiate all
processes on the remote nodes. If the request cannot be met immediately,
.B srun
will block until the resources are free to run the job. If the
\fB\-I\fR (\fB\-\-immediate\fR) option is specified
.B srun
will terminate if resources are not immediately available.
.PP
When initiating remote processes
.B srun
will propagate the current working directory, unless
\fB\-\-chdir\fR=\fIpath\fR is specified, in which case \fIpath\fR will
become the working directory for the remote processes.
.PP
The \fB\-n\fB, \fB\-c\fR, and \fB\-N\fR options control how CPUs  and
nodes will be allocated to the job. When specifying only the number
of processes to run with \fB\-n\fR, a default of one CPU per process
is allocated. By specifying the number of CPUs required per task (\fB\-c\fR),
more than one CPU may be allocated per process. If the number of nodes
is specified with \fB\-N\fR,
.B srun
will attempt to allocate \fIat least\fR the number of nodes specified.
.PP
Combinations of the above three options may be used to change how
processes are distributed across nodes and cpus. For instance, by specifying
both the number of processes and number of nodes on which to run, the
number of processes per node is implied. However, if the number of CPUs
per process is more important then number of processes (\fB\-n\fR) and the
number of CPUs per process (\fB\-c\fR) should be specified.
.PP
.B srun
will refuse to  allocate more than one process per CPU unless
\fB\-\-overcommit\fR (\fB\-O\fR) is also specified.
.PP
.B srun
will attempt to meet the above specifications "at a minimum." That is,
if 16 nodes are requested for 32 processes, and some nodes do not have
2 CPUs, the allocation of nodes will be increased in order to meet the
demand for CPUs. In other words, a \fIminimum\fR of 16 nodes are being
requested. However, if 16 nodes are requested for 15 processes,
.B srun
will consider this an error, as 15 processes cannot run across 16 nodes.
.PP
.B "IO Redirection"
.PP
By default stdout and stderr will be redirected from all tasks to the
stdout and stderr of
.B srun
, and stdin will be redirected from the standard input of 
.B srun 
to all remote tasks. 
For OS X, the poll() function does not support stdin, so input from 
a terminal is not possible.
This behavior may be changed with the 
\fB\-\-output\fR, \fB\-\-error\fR, and \fB\-\-input\fR 
(\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-e\fR, \fB\-i\fR) options. Valid format specifications 
for these options are
.TP 10
\fBall\fR
stdout stderr is redirected from all tasks to srun.
stdin is broadcast to all remote tasks.
(This is the default behavior)
.TP
\fBnone\fR
stdout and stderr is not received from any task. 
stdin is not sent to any task (stdin is closed).
.TP
\fItaskid\fR
stdout and/or stderr are redirected from only the task with relative
id equal to \fItaskid\fR, where 0 <= \fItaskid\fR <= \fIntasks\fR,
where \fIntasks\fR is the total number of tasks in the current job step.
stdin is redirected from the stdin of
.B srun
to this same task.
.TP
\fIfilename\fR
.B srun
will redirect stdout and/or stderr to the named file from all tasks.
stdin will be redirected from the named file and broadcast to all
tasks in the job.  If the job is submitted in batch mode using the
.B \-b
or
.B \-\-batch
option, \fIfilename\fR refers to a path on each of the nodes on which
the job runs.  Otherwise \fIfilename\fR refers to a path on the host
that runs \fBsrun\fR.  Depending on the cluster's file system layout,
this may result in the output appearing in different places depending
on whether the job is run in batch mode.
.TP
format string
.B srun 
allows for a format string to be used to generate the named IO file 
described above. The following list of format specifiers may be
used in the format string to generate a filename that will be
unique to a given jobid, stepid, node, or task. In each case, 
the appropriate number of files are opened and associated with
the corresponding tasks.
.RS 10
.TP
%J
jobid.stepid of the running job. (e.g. "128.0")
.TP
%j 
jobid of the running job. 
.TP
%s
stepid of the running job.
.TP
%N
short hostname. This will create a separate IO file per node.
.TP
%n
Node identifier relative to current job (e.g. "0" is the first node of
the running job) This will create a separate IO file per node.
.TP
%t
task identifier (rank) relative to current job. This will create a
separate IO file per task.
.PP
A number placed between the percent character and format specifier may be
used to zero\-pad the result in the IO filename. This number is ignored if 
the format specifier corresponds to  non\-numeric data (%N for example).

Some examples of how the format string may be used for a 4 task job step
with a Job ID of 128 and step id of 0 are included below:
.TP 15
job%J.out
job128.0.out
.TP
job%4j.out
job0128.out
.TP
job%j\-%2t.out 
job128\-00.out, job128\-01.out, ...
.PP
.RS -10
.PP
.B "Allocate Mode"
.PP
When the allocate option is specified (\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-allocate\fR)
\fBsrun\fR will not initiate any remote processes after acquiring
resources. Instead, \fBsrun\fR will spawn a subshell which has access
to the acquired resources. Subsequent instances of \fBsrun\fR from within
this subshell will then run on these resources.
.PP
If the name of a script is specified on the
commandline with \fB\-\-allocate\fR, the spawned shell will run the
specified script. Resources allocated in this way will only be freed
when the subshell terminates.
.PP
.B "Attaching to a running job"
.PP
Use of the \fB\-a\fR \fIjobid\fR (or \fB\-\-attach\fR) option allows
\fBsrun\fR to reattach to a running job, receiving stdout and stderr
from the job and forwarding signals to the job, just as if the current
session of \fBsrun\fR had started the job. (stdin, however, cannot
be forwarded to the job).
.PP
There are two ways to reattach to a running job. The default method
is to attach to the current job read\-only. In this case, 
stdout and stderr are duplicated to the attaching \fBsrun\fR, but
signals are not forwarded to the remote processes (A single 
Ctrl\-C will detach this read\-only \fBsrun\fR from the job). If
the \fB\-j\fR (\fB\-\-join\fR) option is is also specified, 
\fBsrun\fR "joins" the running job, and is able to forward signals,
connects stdin, and acts for the most part much like the \fBsrun\fR
process that initiated the job. 
.PP
Node and CPU selection options do not make sense when specifying 
\fB\-\-attach\fR, and it is an error to use \fB\-n\fR, \fB\-c\fR, 
or \fB\-N\fR in attach mode.
.PP
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Some srun options may be set via environment variables. 
These environment variables, along with their corresponding options, 
are listed below.
Note: Command line options will always override these settings.
.TP 22
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR
The location of the SLURM configuration file.
.TP
\fBSLURM_ACCOUNT\fR
\fB\-U, \-\-account\fR=\fIaccount\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_CPU_BIND\fR
\fB\-\-cpu_bind\fR=\fItype\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK\fR
\fB\-c, \-\-ncpus\-per\-task\fR=\fIn\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_CONN_TYPE\fR
\fB\-\-conn\-type\fR=(\fImesh|nav|torus\fR)
.TP
\fBSLURM_CORE_FORMAT\fR
\fB\-\-core\fR=\fIformat\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_DEBUG\fR
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
.TP
\fBSLURMD_DEBUG\fR
\fB\-d, \-\-slurmd\-debug\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_DIST_PLANESIZE\fR
\fB\-m plane\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_DISTRIBUTION\fR
\fB\-m, \-\-distribution\fR=(\fIblock|cyclic|hostfile\fR)
.TP
\fBSLURM_GEOMETRY\fR
\fB\-g, \-\-geometry\fR=\fIX,Y,Z\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_LABELIO\fR
\fB\-l, \-\-label\fR
\fBSLURM_UNBUFFEREDIO\fR
\fB-u, --unbuffered\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND\fR
\fB\-\-mem_bind\fR=\fItype\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_NETWORK\fR
\fB\-\-network\fR=\fItype\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_NNODES\fR
\fB\-N, \-\-nodes\fR=(\fIn|min\-max\fR)
.TP
\fBSLURN_NTASKS_PER_CORE\fR
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR
.TP
\fBSLURN_NTASKS_PER_NODE\fR
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fRa
.TP
\fBSLURN_NTASKS_PER_SOCKET\fR
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-socket\fRa
.TP
\fBSLURM_NO_REQUEUE\fR
\fB\-\-no\-requeue\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_NO_ROTATE\fR
\fB\-\-no\-rotate\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_NPROCS\fR
\fB\-n, \-\-ntasks\fR=\fIn\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_OVERCOMMIT\fR
\fB\-o, \-\-overcommit\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_PARTITION\fR
\fB\-p, \-\-partition\fR=\fIpartition\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_REMOTE_CWD\fR
\fB\-D, \-\-chdir=\fR=\fIdir\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_SRUN_COMM_IFHN\fR
\fB\-\-ctrl\-comm\-ifhn\fR=\fIaddr\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_STDERRMODE\fR
\fB\-e, \-\-error\fR=\fImode\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_STDINMODE\fR
\fB\-i, \-\-input\fR=\fImode\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_STDOUTMODE\fR
\fB\-o, \-\-output\fR=\fImode\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_TASK_EPILOG\fR
\fB\-\-task\-epilog\fR=\fIexecutable\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_TASK_PROLOG\fR
\fB\-\-task\-prolog\fR=\fIexecutable\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_TIMELIMIT\fR
\fB\-t, \-\-time\fR=\fIminutes\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_WAIT\fR
\fB\-W, \-\-wait\fR=\fIseconds\fR
.TP
\fBSLURM_DISABLE_STATUS\fR
\fB\-X, \-\-disable\-status\fR
.PP
Additionally, srun will set some environment variables in the environment 
of the executing tasks on the remote compute nodes. 
These environment variables are:

.TP
\fBSLURM_CPU_BIND_VERBOSE\fR
\-\-cpu_bind verbosity (quiet,verbose).
.TP
\fBSLURM_CPU_BIND_TYPE\fR
\-\-cpu_bind type (none,rank,map_cpu:,mask_cpu:)
.TP
\fBSLURM_CPU_BIND_LIST\fR
\-\-cpu_bind map or mask list (<list of IDs or masks for this node>)

.TP
\fBSLURM_CPUS_ON_NODE\fR
Count of processors available to the job on this node.
Note the select/linear plugin allocates entire nodes to 
jobs, so the value indicates the total count of CPUs on the node.
The select/cons_res plugin allocates individual processors 
to jobs, so this number indicates the number of processors 
on this node allocated to the job.

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOBID\fR
Job id of the executing job
.TP
\fBSLURM_LAUNCH_NODE_IPADDR\fR
IP adddress of the node from which the task launch was 
initiated (where the srun command ran from)
.TP
\fBSLURM_LOCALID\fR
Node local task ID for the process within a job

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_VERBOSE\fR
\-\-mem_bind verbosity (quiet,verbose).
.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_TYPE\fR
\-\-mem_bind type (none,rank,map_mem:,mask_mem:)
.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_LIST\fR
\-\-mem_bind map or mask list (<list of IDs or masks for this node>)
                                                                                        
.TP
\fBSLURM_NNODES\fR
Total number of nodes in the job's resource allocation
.TP
\fBSLURM_NODEID\fR
The relative node ID of the current node
.TP
\fBSLURM_NODELIST\fR
List of nodes allocated to the job
.TP
\fBSLURM_NPROCS\fR
Total number of processes in the current job
.TP
\fBSLURM_PROCID\fR
The MPI rank (or relative process ID) of the current process
.TP
\fBSLURM_STEPID\fR
The step ID of the current job
.TP
\fBSLURM_TASK_PID\fR
The process ID of the task being started.
.TP
\fBSLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR
Number of tasks to be initiated on each node. Values are 
comma separated and in the same order as SLURM_NODELIST.
If two or more consecutive nodes are to have the same task 
count, that count is followed by "(x#)" where "#" is the 
repetition count. For example, "SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE=2(x3),1"
indicates that the first three nodes will each execute three 
tasks and the fourth node will execute one task.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_PARTITION\fR
The block name on Blue Gene systems only.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_NOALLOCATE\fR
Do not allcate a block on Blue Gene systems only.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_NOFREE\fR
Do not free a block on Blue Gene systems only.

.SH "SIGNALS AND ESCAPE SEQUENCES"
Signals sent to the \fBsrun\fR command are automatically forwarded to 
the tasks it is controlling with a few exceptions. The escape sequence
\fB<control\-c>\fR will report the state of all tasks associated with 
the \fBsrun\fR command. If \fB<control\-c>\fR is entered twice within 
one second, then the associated SIGINT signal will be sent to all tasks.
If a third \fB<control\-c>\fR is received, the job will be forcefully
terminated without waiting for remote tasks to exit.

The escape sequence \fB<control\-z>\fR is presently ignored. Our intent 
is for this put the \fBsrun\fR command into a mode where various special 
actions may be invoked.

.SH "MPI SUPPORT"
LAM/MPI version 7.0.4 or higher is well intergated with SLURM. 
The \fBlamboot\fR command will acquire a SLURM resource allocation 
and uses the \fBsrun\fR command to launch its \fBlamd\fR daemons on 
each allocated node.  See \fIhttp://www.lam\-mpi.org/\fR for more 
information.

On computers with a Quadrics interconnect, \fBsrun\fR directly supports
the Quadrics version of MPI without modification. Applications build
using the Quadrics MPI library will communicate directly over the
Quadrics interconnect without any special \fBsrun\fR options.

Users may also use MPICH on any computer where that is available. 
The \fBmpirun\fR command may need to be provided with information 
on its command line identifying the resources to be used. The 
installer of the MPICH software may configure it to perform these 
steps automatically. At worst, you must specify two parameters:
.TP
\fB\-np SLURM_NPROCS\fR
number of processors to run on
.TP
\fB\-machinefile <machinefile>\fR
list of computers on which to execute. This list can be constructed 
executing the command \fBsrun /bin/hostname\fR and writing its standard 
output to the desired file. Execute \fBmpirun \-\-help\fR for more options.

.SH "MULTIPLE PROGRAM CONFIGURATION"
Comments in the configuration file must have a "#" in collumn one.
The configuration file contains the following fields separated by white
space:
.TP
Task rank
One or more task ranks to use this configuration.
Multiple values may be comma separated.
Ranges may be indicated with two numbers separated with a '\-'.
To indicate all tasks, specify a rank of '*' (in which case you probably 
should not be using this option).
.TP
Executable
The name of the program to execute.
May be fully qualified pathname if desired.
.TP
Arguments
Program arguments.
The expression "%t" will be replaced with the task's number.
The expression "%o" will be replaced with the task's offset within
this range (e.g. a configured task rank value of "1\-5" would
have offset values of "0\-4").
Single quotes may be used to avoid having the enclosed values interpretted.
This field is optional.
.PP
For example:
.nf
###################################################################
# srun multiple program configuration file
#
# srun \-n8 \-l \-\-multi\-prog silly.conf
###################################################################
4\-6       hostname
1,7       echo  task:%t
0,2\-3     echo  offset:%o

> srun \-n8 \-l \-\-multi\-prog silly.conf
0: offset:0
1: task:1
2: offset:1
3: offset:2
4: linux15.llnl.gov
5: linux16.llnl.gov
6: linux17.llnl.gov
7: task:7

.fi


.SH "EXAMPLES"
This simple example demonstrates the execution of the command \fBhostname\fR
in eight tasks. At least eight processors will be allocated to the job 
(the same as the task count) on however many nodes are required to satisfy 
the request. The output of each task will be proceeded with its task number.
(The machine "dev" in the example below has a total of two CPUs per node)

.nf

> srun \-n8 \-l hostname
0: dev0
1: dev0
2: dev1
3: dev1
4: dev2
5: dev2
6: dev3
7: dev3

.fi
.PP
This example demonstrates how one might submit a script for later 
execution (batch mode). The script will be initiated when resources 
are available and no higher priority job is pending for the same 
partition. The script will execute on 4 nodes with one task per node 
implicit. Note that the script executes on one node. For the script 
to utilize all allocated nodes, it must execute the \fBsrun\fR command 
or an MPI program.

.nf

> cat test.sh
#!/bin/sh
date
srun \-l hostname

> srun \-N4 \-b test.sh
srun: jobid 42 submitted

.fi
.PP
The output of test.sh would be found in the default output file
"slurm\-42.out."
.PP
The srun \fB\-r\fR option is used within a job script
to run two job steps on disjoint nodes in the following
example. The script is run using allocate mode instead
of as a batch job in this case.

.nf

> cat test.sh
#!/bin/sh
echo $SLURM_NODELIST
srun \-lN2 \-r2 hostname
srun \-lN2 hostname

> srun \-A \-N4 test.sh
dev[7\-10]
0: dev9
1: dev10
0: dev7
1: dev8

.fi
.PP
The follwing script runs two job steps in parallel 
within an allocated set of nodes. 

.nf

> cat test.sh
#!/bin/bash
srun \-lN2 \-n4 \-r 2 sleep 60 &
srun \-lN2 \-r 0 sleep 60 &
sleep 1
squeue
squeue \-s
wait

> srun \-A \-N4 test.sh
  JOBID PARTITION     NAME     USER  ST      TIME  NODES NODELIST
  65641     batch  test.sh   grondo   R      0:01      4 dev[7\-10]

STEPID     PARTITION     USER      TIME NODELIST
65641.0        batch   grondo      0:01 dev[7\-8]
65641.1        batch   grondo      0:01 dev[9\-10]

.fi
.PP
This example demonstrates how one executes a simple MPICH job.
We use \fBsrun\fR to build a list of machines (nodes) to be used by 
\fBmpirun\fR in its required format. A sample command line and 
the script to be executed follow.

.nf

> cat test.sh
#!/bin/sh
MACHINEFILE="nodes.$SLURM_JOBID"

# Generate Machinefile for mpich such that hosts are in the same
#  order as if run via srun
#
srun \-l /bin/hostname | sort \-n | awk '{print $2}' > $MACHINEFILE

# Run using generated Machine file:
mpirun \-np $SLURM_NPROCS \-machinefile $MACHINEFILE mpi\-app

rm $MACHINEFILE

> srun \-AN2 \-n4 test.sh

.fi 
.PP
This simple example demonstrates the execution of different jobs on different 
nodes in the same srun.  You can do this for any number of nodes or any 
number of jobs.  The executables are placed on the nodes sited by the 
SLURM_NODEID env var.  Starting at 0 and going to the number specified on
the srun commandline.

.nf

> cat test.sh
case $SLURM_NODEID in
    0) echo "I am running on "
       hostname ;;
    1) hostname
       echo "is where I am running" ;;
esac

> srun \-N2 test.sh
dev0
is where I am running
I am running on 
dev1

.fi
.PP
This example demonstrates use of multi\-core options to control layout 
of tasks. 
We request that four sockets per node and two cores per socket be 
dedicated to the job. 

.nf

> srun \-N2 \-B 4\-4:2\-2 a.out
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL\-CODE\-226842.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsalloc\fR(1), \fBsttach\fR(1), \fBsbatch\fR(1), \fBsbcast\fR(1),
\fBscancel\fR(1), \fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1), \fBslurm.conf\fR(5),
\fBsched_setaffinity\fR(2), \fBnuma\fR(3)
