.TH "salloc" "1" "SLURM 1.2" "August 2007" "SLURM Commands"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
salloc \- Obtain a SLURM job allocation (a set of nodes), execute a command, and then release the allocation when the command is finished.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP 
salloc [\fIoptions\fP] [<\fIcommand\fP> [\fIcommand args\fR]]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
salloc is used to allocate a SLURM job allocation, which is a set of resources (nodes), possibly with some set of constraints (e.g. number of processors per node).  When salloc successfully obtains the requested allocation, it then runs the command specified by the user.  Finally, when the user specified command is complete, salloc relinquishes the job allocation.

The command may be any program the user wishes.  Some typical commands are xterm, a shell script containing srun commands, and srun (see the EXAMPLES section).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 

.TP
\fB\-\-begin\fR[=]<\fItime\fR>
Submit the batch script to the SLURM controller immediately, like normal, but
tell the controller to defer the allocation of the job until the specified time.

Time may be of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR to run a job at
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
(If that time is already past, the next day is assumed.)
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, or
\fIteatime\fR (4pm) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for running in the morning or the evening.
You can also say what day the job will be run, by giving
a date in the form \fImonth\-name\fR day with an optional year,
or giving a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR
or \fIDD.MM.YY\fR. You can also
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR, \fIdays\fR, or \fIweeks\fR
and you can tell SLURM to run the job today with the keyword
\fItoday\fR and to run the job tomorrow with the keyword
\fItomorrow\fR.
The value may be changed after job submission using the
\fBscontrol\fR command.

.TP 
\fB\-\-bell\fR
Force salloc to ring the terminal bell when the job allocation is granted
(and only if stdout is a tty).  By default, salloc only rings the bell
if the allocation is pending for more than ten seconds (and only if stdout
is a tty). Also see the option \fB\-\-no\-bell\fR.

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-constraint\fR[=]<\fIlist\fR>
Specify a list of constraints. 
The constraints are features that have been assigned to the nodes by 
the slurm administrator. 
The \fIlist\fR of constraints may include multiple features separated 
by ampersand (AND) and/or vertical bar (OR) operators.
For example: \fB\-\-constraint="opteron&video"\fR or 
\fB\-\-constraint="fast|faster"\fR.
If only one of a set of possible options should be used for all allocated 
nodes, then use the OR operator and enclose the options within square brackets. 
For example: "\fB\-\-constraint="[rack1|rack2|rack3|rack4]"\fR might 
be used to specify that all nodes must be allocated on a single rack of 
the cluster, but any of those four racks can be used.
If no nodes have the requested features, then the job will be rejected 
by the slurm job manager.

.TP
\fB\-\-comment\fR
An arbitrary comment.

.TP
\fB\-\-contiguous\fR
Demand a contiguous range of nodes. The default is "yes". Specify
\-\-contiguous=no if a contiguous range of nodes is not required.

.TP 
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR[=]<\fIncpus\fR>
Advise the SLURM controller that ensuing job steps will require \fIncpus\fR 
number of processors per task.  Without this option, the controller will
just try to allocate one processor per task.

For instance,
consider an application that has 4 tasks, each requiring 3 processors.  If our
cluster is comprised of quad\-processors nodes and we simply ask for
12 processors, the controller might give us only 3 nodes.  However, by using
the \-\-cpus\-per\-task=3 options, the controller knows that each task requires
3 processors on the same node, and the controller will grant an allocation
of 4 nodes, one for each of the 4 tasks.

.TP 
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dependency\fR[=]<\fIjobid\fR>
Defer the start of this job until the specified \fIjobid\fR has completed.
Many jobs can share the same dependency and these jobs may even belong to
different  users.   The  value may be changed after job submission using the
scontrol command.

.TP
\fB\-\-exclusive\fR
The job allocation cannot share nodes with other running jobs.  This is
the oposite of \-\-shared, whichever option is seen last on the command line
will win.  (The default shared/exclusive behaviour depends on system
configuration.)

.TP 
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-nodefile\fR[=]<\fInode file\fR>
Much like \-\-nodelist, but the list is contained in a file of name
\fInode file\fR.  The node names of the list may also span multiple lines
in the file.    Duplicate node names in the file will be ignored.
The order of the node names in the list is not important; the node names
will be sorted my SLURM.

.TP
\fB\-\-gid\fR[=]<\fIgroup\fR>
If \fBsalloc\fR is run as root, and the \fB\-\-gid\fR option is used, 
submit the job with \fIgroup\fR's group access permissions.  \fIgroup\fR 
may be the group name or the numerical group ID.

.TP 
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information and exit.

.TP 
\fB\-I\fR,\fB\-\-immediate\fR
Grab the requested resources immediately, or abort if the resources are not
currently available.  The \fIcommand\fR parameter will not be run if the resources
are not available.

.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-job\-name\fR[=]<\fIjobname\fR>
Specify a name for the job allocation. The specified name will appear along with
the job id number when querying running jobs on the system.  The default job
name is the name of the "command" specified on the command line.

.TP
\fB\-\-jobid\fR=<\fIjobid\fR>
Allocate resources as the specified job id. 
NOTE: Only valid for user root.

.TP 
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-kill\-command\fR[=\fIsignal\fR]
salloc always runs a user\-specified command once the allocation is
granted.  salloc will wait indefinitely for that command to exit.
If you specify the \-\-kill\-command option salloc will send a signal to
your command any time that the SLURM controller tells salloc that its job
allocation has been revoked. The job allocation can be revoked for a
couple of reasons: someone used \fBscancel\fR to revoke the allocation,
or the allocation reached its time limit.  If you do not specify a signal
name or number, the default signal is SIGTERM.

.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-no\-kill\fR
Do not automatically terminate a job of one of the nodes it has been 
allocated fails.  The user will assume the responsibilities for fault\-tolerance
should a node fail.  When there is a node failure, any active job steps (usually
MPI jobs) on that node will almost certainly suffer a fatal error, but with
\-\-no\-kill, the job allocation will not be revoked so the user may launch
new job steps on the remaining nodes in their allocation.

By default SLURM terminates the entire job allocation if any node fails in its
range of allocated nodes.

.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR=\fItype\fR
Notify user by email when certain event types occur. 
Valid \fItype\fR values are BEGIN, END, FAIL, ALL (any state change). 
The user to be notified is indicated with \fB\-\-mail\-user\fR. 

.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-user\fR=\fIuser\fR
User to receive email notification of state changes as defined by 
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR.
The default value is the username of the submitting user.

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\fR[=]<\fIMB\fR>
Specify a minimum amount of real memory.

.TP
\fB\-\-mincores\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of cores per socket.

.TP
\fB\-\-mincpus\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify minimum number of cpus per node.

.TP
\fB\-\-minsockets\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of sockets (physical processors) per node.

.TP
\fB\-\-minthreads\fR[=]<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of threads per core.

.TP 
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nodes\fR[=]<\fInumber|[min]\-[max]\fR>
Specify the number of nodes to be used by this job step.  This option accepts
either a single number, or a range of possible node counts.  If a single
number is used, such as "\-N 4", then the allocation is asking for four and
ONLY four nodes.  If a range is specified, such as "\-N 2\-6", the SLURM
controller may grant salloc anywhere from 2 to 6 nodes.  When using a range,
either of the min or max options may be omitted.  For instance, "\-N 10\-"
means "no fewer than 10 nodes", and "\-N \-20" means "no more than 20 nodes".
The default value of this option is one node, but other options implicitly
increase the default node count. 
The job will be allocated as many nodes as possible within the range specified 
and without delaying the initiation of the job.
The partition's node limits supersede those of the job. 
If a job's node limits are outside of the range permitted for its 
associated partition, the job will be left in a PENDING state. 
This permits possible execution at a later time, when the partition 
limit is changed.
If a job node limit exceeds the number of nodes configured in the 
partition, the job will be rejected.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-tasks\fR[=]<\fInumber\fR>
salloc does not launch tasks, it requests an allocation of resources and submits
a batch script.  However this \-\-tasks option advizes the SLURM controller
that job steps run within this allocation will launch a maximum of \fInumber\fR
tasks.  This option, possibly with collaboration with the \-\-cpus\-per\-task
option, will directly impact the number of processors granted to the job
allocation.

.TP 
\fB\-\-nice\fR[=]<\fIadjustment\fR>
Run the job with an adjusted scheduling priority within SLURM.
With no adjustment value the scheduling priority is decreased
by 100. The adjustment range is from \-10000 (highest priority)
to 10000 (lowest priority). Only privileged users can specify
a negative adjustment. NOTE: This option is presently
ignored if \fISchedulerType=sched/wiki\fR or 
\fISchedulerType=sched/wiki2\fR.

.TP 
\fB\-\-no\-bell\fR
Silence salloc's use of the terminal bell. Also see the option \fB\-\-bell\fR.

.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-overcommit\fR
Overcommit resources. Normally, \fBsbatch\fR will allocate one cpu per
task to be executed. By specifying \fB\-\-overcommit\fR you are explicitly
allowing more than one process per cpu. However no more than
\fBMAX_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR tasks are permitted to execute per node.

.TP 
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR[=]<\fIpartition name\fR>
Request a specific partition for the resource allocation.  If not specified,
the default behaviour is to allow the slurm controller to select the default
partition as designated by the system administrator.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress informational messages from salloc. Errors will still be displayed.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-share\fR
The job allocation can share nodes with other running jobs.  (The default
shared/exclusive behaviour depends on system configuration.)
This may result the allocation being granted sooner than if the \-\-shared
option was not set and allow higher system utilization, but application
performance will likely suffer due to competition for resources within a node.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR=\fItime\fR
Set a limit on the total run time of the job allocation.
If the requested time limit exceeds the partition's time limit, the 
job will be left in a PENDING state (possibly indefinitely).  The default
time limit is the partition's time limit.  When the time limit is reached,
the each task in each job step is sent SIGTERM followed by SIGKILL. The
interval between signals is specified by the SLURM configuration parameter
\fBKillWait\fR.  A time limit of zero represents unlimited time.
Acceptable time formats include "minutes", "minutes:seconds", 
"hours:minutes:seconds", "days\-hours", "days\-hours:minutes" and 
"days\-hours:minutes:seconds".

.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\fR[=]<\fIMB\fR>
Specify a minimum amount of temporary disk space.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-account\fR[=]<\fIaccount\fR>
Change resource use by this job to specified account.
The \fIaccount\fR is an arbitrary string. The account name may 
be changed after job submission using the \fBscontrol\fR 
command.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-usage\fR
Display brief usage message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-uid\fR[=]<\fIuser\fR>
Attempt to submit and/or run a job as \fIuser\fR instead of the
invoking user id. The invoking user's credentials will be used
to check access permissions for the target partition. User root
may use this option to run jobs as a normal user in a RootOnly
partition for example. If run as root, \fBsalloc\fR will drop
its permissions to the uid specified after node allocation is
successful. \fIuser\fR may be the user name or numerical user ID.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase the verbosity of salloc's informational messages.  Multiple \-v's
will further increase salloc's verbosity.

.TP 
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.

.TP 
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-wait\fR[=]<\fIseconds\fR>
If the resources needed to satisy a job allocation are not immediately
available, the job allocation is enqueued and is said to be PENDING.  This
option tells salloc how long (in seconds) to wait for the allocation to be
granted before giving up.  When the wait limit has been reached, salloc
will exit without running the \fIcommand\fR parameter.  By default, salloc
will wait indefinitely.  (The \-\-immediate option makes \-\-wait moot.)

.TP 
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-nodelist\fR[=]<\fInode name list\fR>
Request a specific list of node names.  The list may be specified as a
comma\-separated list of node names, or a range of node names
(e.g. mynode[1\-5,7,...]).  Duplicate node names in the list will be ignored.
The order of the node names in the list is not important; the node names
will be sorted my SLURM.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR[=]<\fInode name list\fR>
Explicitly exclude certain nodes from the resources granted to the job.


.PP
The following options support Blue Gene systems, but may be 
applicable to other systems as well.

.TP
\fB\-\-conn\-type\fR[=]<\fItype\fR>
Require the partition connection type to be of a certain type.  
On Blue Gene the acceptable of \fItype\fR are MESH, TORUS and NAV.  
If NAV, or if not set, then SLURM will try to fit a TORUS else MESH.
You should not normally set this option.
SLURM will normally allocate a TORUS if possible for a given geometry.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-geometry\fR[=]<\fIXxYxZ\fR>
Specify the geometry requirements for the job. The three numbers 
represent the required geometry giving dimensions in the X, Y and 
Z directions. For example "\-\-geometry=2x3x4", specifies a block 
of nodes having 2 x 3 x 4 = 24 nodes (actually base partions on 
Blue Gene).

.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-no\-rotate\fR
Disables rotation of the job's requested geometry in order to fit an 
appropriate partition.
By default the specified geometry can rotate in three dimensions.

.TP
\fB\-\-reboot\fR
Force the allocated nodes to reboot before starting the job.

.SH "INPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Upon startup, salloc will read and handle the options set in the following
environment variables.  Note: Command line options always override environment
variables settings.

.TP 22 
\fBSALLOC_ACCOUNT\fR
Same as \fB\-\-account\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_BELL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-bell\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_CONN_TYPE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-conn\-type\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_DEBUG\fR
Same as \fB\-v\fR or \fB\-\-verbose\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_EXCLUSIVE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-exclusive\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_GEOMETRY\fR
Same as \fB\-g\fR or \fB\-\-geometry\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_IMMEDIATE\fR
Same as \fB\-I\fR or \fB\-\-immediate\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_JOBID\fR
Same as \fB\-\-jobid\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_NO_BELL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-no\-bell\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_NO_ROTATE\fR
Same as \fB\-R\fR or \fB\-\-no\-rotate\fR.
.TP
\fBSLURM_OVERCOMMIT\fR
Same as \fB\-O, \-\-overcommit\fR
.TP
\fBSALLOC_PARTITION\fR
Same as \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-\-partition\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_TIMELIMIT\fR
Same as \fB\-t\fR or \fB\-\-time\fR.
.TP
\fBSALLOC_WAIT\fR
Same as \fB\-W\fR or \fB\-\-wait\fR.

.SH "OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
salloc will set the following environment variables in the environment of
the executed program:

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_ID\fR (and \fBSLURM_JOBID\fR for backwards compatibility)
The ID of the job allocation.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_CPUS_PER_NODE\fR
Count of processors available to the job on this node.
Note the select/linear plugin allocates entire nodes to
jobs, so the value indicates the total count of CPUs on each node.
The select/cons_res plugin allocates individual processors
to jobs, so this number indicates the number of processors
on each node allocated to the job allocation.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_NODELIST\fR (and \fBSLURM_NODELIST\fR for backwards compatibility)
List of nodes allocated to the job.
.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_NUM_NODES\fR (and \fBSLURM_NNODES\fR for backwards compatibility)
Total number of nodes in the job allocation.
.TP
\fBSLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR
Number of tasks to be initiated on each node. Values are
comma separated and in the same order as SLURM_NODELIST.
If two or more consecutive nodes are to have the same task
count, that count is followed by "(x#)" where "#" is the
repetition count. For example, "SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE=2(x3),1"
indicates that the first three nodes will each execute three
tasks and the fourth node will execute one task.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_NOALLOCATE\fR
Do not allocate a block on Blue Gene systems only.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_NOFREE\fR
Do not free a block on Blue Gene systems only.
.TP
\fBMPIRUN_PARTITION\fR
The block name on Blue Gene systems only.

.SH "SIGNALS"
.LP 
While salloc is waiting for a PENDING job allocation, most signals will cause salloc to revoke the allocation request and exit.

However, if the allocation has been granted and salloc has already started the command speficied in its command line parameters salloc will ignore most signals.  salloc will not exit or release the allocation until the command exits.  The noteable exception is SIGHUP; a HUP signal will cause salloc to release the allocation and exit without waiting for the command to finish.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To get an allocation, and open a new xterm in which srun commands may be typed interactively:
.IP 
$ salloc \-N16 xterm
.br 
salloc: Granted job allocation 65537
.br 
(at this point the xterm appears, and salloc waits for xterm to exit)
.br 
salloc: Relinquishing job allocation 65537
.LP 
To grab an allocation of nodes and launch a parallel application on one command line (See the \fBsalloc\fR man page for more examples):
.IP 
salloc \-N5 srun \-n10 myprogram

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL\-CODE\-226842.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
sinfo(1), sattach(1), sbatch(1), squeue(1), scancel(1), scontrol(1), slurm.conf(5), sched_setaffinity(2), numa(3)
