.TH "slurm.conf" "5" "August 2005" "slurm.conf 0.6" "Slurm configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
slurm.conf \- Slurm configuration file 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fB/etc/slurm.conf\fP is an ASCI file which describes general SLURM
configuration information, the nodes to be managed, information about
how those nodes are grouped into partitions, and various scheduling
parameters associated with those partitions.
.LP
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter. In addition, you can use the
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR environment variable to override the built-in
location of this file. The SLURM daemons also allow you to override
both the built-in and environment-provided location using the "-f"
option on the command line.
.LP
The contents of the file are case insensitive except for the names of nodes 
and partitions. Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated 
as a comment through the end of that line. 
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of 
SLURM daemons, daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal, or execution 
of the command "scontrol reconfigure" unless otherwise noted.
.LP
The overall configuration parameters available include:
.TP
\fBAuthType\fR
Define the authentication method for communications between SLURM 
components. 
Acceptable values at present include "auth/none", "auth/authd", 
and "auth/munge".
The default value is "auth/none", which means the UID included in 
communication messages is not verified. 
This may be fine for testing purposes, but 
\fBdo not use "auth/none" if you desire any security\fR.
"auth/authd" indicates that Brett Chun's authd is to be used (see
"http://www.theether.org/authd/" for more information).
"auth/munge" indicates that Chris Dunlap's munge is to be used
(this is the best supported authentication mechanism for SLURM, 
see "http://www.llnl.gov/linux/munge/" for more information).
All SLURM daemons and commands must be terminated prior to changing 
the value of \fBAuthType\fR and later restarted (SLURM jobs can be 
preserved).
.TP
\fBBackupAddr\fR
Name that \fBBackupController\fR should be referred to in 
establishing a communications path. This name will 
be used as an argument to the gethostbyname() function for 
identification. For example, "elx0000" might be used to designate 
the ethernet address for node "lx0000". 
By default the \fBBackupAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBBackupController\fR.
.TP
\fBBackupController\fR
The name of the machine where SLURM control functions are to be 
executed in the event that \fBControlMachine\fR fails. This node
may also be used as a compute server if so desired. It will come into service 
as a controller only upon the failure of ControlMachine and will revert 
to a "standby" mode when the ControlMachine becomes available once again. 
This should be a node name without the full domain name (e.g. "lx0002"). 
While not essential, it is recommended that you specify a backup controller.
.TP
\fBCheckpointType\fR
Define the system-initiated checkpoint method to be used for user jobs. 
The slurmctld daemon must be restarted for a change in CheckpointType 
to take effect. 
Acceptable values at present include "checkpoint/none" and "checkpoint/aix"
(only on AIX systems). 
The default value is "checkpoint/none".
.TP
\fBControlAddr\fR
Name that \fBControlMachine\fR should be referred to in 
establishing a communications path. This name will 
be used as an argument to the gethostbyname() function for 
identification. For example, "elx0000" might be used to designate 
the ethernet address for node "lx0000". 
By default the \fBControlAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBControlMachine\fR.
.TP
\fBControlMachine\fR
The name of the machine where SLURM control functions are executed. 
This should be a node name without the full domain name (e.g. "lx0001"). 
This value must be specified.
.TP
\fBEpilog\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a script to execute as user root on every 
node when a user's job completes (e.g. "/usr/local/slurm/epilog"). This may 
be used to purge files, disable user login, etc. By default there is no epilog.
.TP
\fBFastSchedule\fR
If set to 1 (the default), then consider the configuration of each node 
to be that specified in the configuration file. If set to 0, then base 
scheduling decisions upon the actual configuration of each individual node. 
If the number of node configuration entries in the configuration file 
is significantly lower than the number of nodes, setting FastSchedule to 
1 will permit much faster scheduling decisions to be made. 
(The scheduler can just check the values in a few configuration records 
instead of possibly thousands of node records. If a job can't be initiated 
immediately, the scheduler may execute these tests repeatedly.)
Note that on systems with hyper-threading, the processor count 
reported by the node will be twice the actually processor count. 
Consider which value you want to be used for scheduling purposes.
.TP
\fBFirstJobId\fR
The job id to be used for the first submitted to SLURM without a 
specific requested value. Job id values generated will incremented by 1 
for each subsequent job. This may be used to provide a meta-scheduler 
with a job id space which is disjoint from the interactive jobs. 
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBHeartbeatInterval\fR
The interval, in seconds, at which the SLURM controller tests the 
status of other daemons. The default value is 30 seconds. 
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBInactiveLimit\fR
The interval, in seconds, a job or job step is permitted to be inactive
before it is terminated. A job or job step is considered inactive if 
the associated srun command is not responding to slurm daemons. This 
could be due to the termination of the srun command or the program 
being is a stopped state. A batch job is considered inactive if it 
has no active job steps (e.g. periods of pre- and post-processing).
This limit permits defunct jobs to be purged in a timely fashion 
without waiting for their time limit to be reached.
This value should reflect the possibility that the srun command may
stopped by a debugger or considerable time could be required for batch 
job pre- and post-processing. The default value is unlimited (zero). 
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBJobAcctType\fR
Define the job accounting mechanism type.
Acceptable values at present include "jobacct/log" and "jobacct/none".
The default value is "jobacct/none".
In order to use the \fBsacct\fR tool, "jobacct/log" must be configured.a
\fBJobAcctLoc\fR
Define the location where job accounting logs are to be written.
For jobacct/none this parameter is ignored.
For jobacct/log this is the fully-qualified file name for the data file.
.TP
\fBJobAcctParameters\fR
Define any parameters to pass to the job accounting plugin, in a
comma-separated list.
For jobacct/none this parameter is ignored.
For jobacct/log the parameters available are
.RS
.TP
\fBFrequency=N\fR, where N is the number of seconds between
sampling the memory usage stats (psize, vsize). If N=0, no sampling
is done and psize and vsize are returned as 0.
.TP
\fBMaxSendRetries=N\fR, where N is the number of times to try to send 
an accounting message before giving up.
.TP
\fBMaxSendRetryDelay=N\fR, pause for 1 to MaxSendRetryDelay
seconds between attempts to deliver an
accounting message.
.TP
\fBStaggerSlotSize=N\fR - For a process that might be sending 
a message at the same time as N other processes in the job, where N is
10 or greater, each process will pause a bit before trying to send its
message. For N tasks, N "staggered timeslots" are defined, in increments
of (StaggerSlotSize*.001) seconds. The first process sends its message
immediately, the second process pauses one increment before sending,
the third process pauses two increments before sending, and so on.  
.RE
.TP
\fBJobCompLoc\fR
The interpretation of this value depends upon the logging mechanism 
specified by the \fBJobCompType\fR parameter. 
.TP
\fBJobCompType\fR
Define the job completion logging mechanism type.
Acceptable values at present include "jobcomp/none", "jobcomp/filetxt", 
and "jobcomp/script".
The default value is "jobcomp/none", which means that upon job completion 
the record of the job is purged from the system. 
The value "jobcomp/filetxt" indicates that a record of the job should be 
written to a text file specified by the \fBJobCompLoc\fR parameter.
The value "jobcomp/script" indicates that a script specified by the 
\fBJobCompLoc\fR parameter is to be executed with environment variables 
indicating the job information.
.TP
\fBJobCredentialPrivateKey\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file containing a private key used for 
authentication by Slurm daemons.
.TP
\fBJobCredentialPublicCertificate\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file containing a public key used for 
authentication by Slurm daemons.
.TP
\fBKillTree\fR
This option is mapped to "ProctrackType=proctrack/linuxproc". 
It will be removed from a future release.
.TP
\fBKillWait\fR
The interval, in seconds, given to a job's processes between the 
SIGTERM and SIGKILL signals upon reaching its time limit. 
If the job fails to terminate gracefully 
in the interval specified, it will be forcably terminated. 
The default value is 30 seconds.
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBMaxJobCount\fR
The maximum number of jobs SLURM can have in its active database 
at one time. Set the values of \fBMaxJobCount\fR and \fBMinJobAge\fR 
to insure the slurmctld daemon does not exhaust its memory or other 
resources. Once this limit is reached, requests to submit additional 
jobs will fail. The default value is 2000 jobs. This value may not 
be reset via "scontrol reconfig". It only takes effect upon restart 
of the slurmctld daemon.
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBMinJobAge\fR
The minimum age of a completed job before its record is purged from 
SLURM's active database. Set the values of \fBMaxJobCount\fR and 
\fBMinJobAge\fR to insure the slurmctld daemon does not exhaust 
its memory or other resources. The default value is 300 seconds. 
A value of zero prevents any job record purging.
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBMpiDefault\fR
Identifies the default type of MPI to be used. 
Srun may override this configuration parameter in any case.
Currently supported versions include: lam (which works for 
LAM MPI and Open MPI), mpich\-gm, mvapich, 
and none (default, which works for many other versions of MPI).
.TP
\fBPluginDir\fR
Identifies the places in which to look for SLURM plugins. 
This is a colon-separated list of directories, like the PATH 
environment variable. 
The default value is "/usr/local/lib/slurm".
.TP
\fBProctrackType\fR
Identifies the plugin to be used for process tracking. 
The slurmd daemon uses this mechanism to identify all processes 
which are children of processes it spawns for a user job. 
Acceptable values at present include 
"proctrack/aix" (which uses an AIX kernel extenstion and is 
the default for AIX systems),
"proctrack/linuxproc" (which uses linux process tree),
"proctrack/rms" (which uses Quadrics kernel patch and is the 
default if "SwitchType=switch/elan") and 
"proctrack/pgid" (which is the default for all other systems).
The slurmd daemon must be restarted for a change in ProctrackType 
to take effect.
.TP
\fBProlog\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a script to execute as user root on every 
node when a user's job begins execution (e.g. "/usr/local/slurm/prolog"). 
This may be used to purge files, enable user login, etc. By default there 
is no prolog.
.TP
\fBPropagateResourceLimits\fR
A list of comma separated resource limit names.
The slurmd daemon uses these names to obtain the associated (soft) limit
values from the users process environment on the submit node.
These limits are then propagated and applied to the jobs that
will run on the compute nodes. 
This parameter can be useful when system limits vary among nodes.
Any resource limits that do not appear in the list are not propagated.
However, the user can override this by specifying which resource limits
to propagate with the srun commands "--propagate" option.
If neither of the 'propagate resource limit' parameters are specified, then
the default action is to propagate all limits.
Only one of the parameters, either
\fBPropagateResourceLimits\fR or \fBPropagateResourceLimitsExcept\fR,
may be specified.
.TP
\fBPropagateResourceLimitsExcept\fR
A list of comma separated resource limit names.
By default, all resource limits will be propagated, (as described by
the \fBPropagateResourceLimits\fR parameter), except for the limits
appearing in this list.   The user can override this by specifying which
resource limits to propagate with the srun commands "--propagate" option.
.TP
\fBReturnToService\fR
If set to 1, then a DOWN node will become available for use 
upon registration. The default value is 0, which 
means that a node will remain in the DOWN state 
until a system administrator explicitly changes its state
(even if the slurmd daemon registers and resumes communications).
.TP
\fBSchedulerAuth\fR
An authentication token, if any, that must be used in a scheduler 
communication protocol. The interpretation of this value depends 
upon the value of \fBSchedulerType\fR.  In the Wiki scheduler plugin,
this value must correspond to the checksum seed with which Maui was
compiled.
.TP
\fBSchedulerPort\fR
The port number on which slurmctld should listen for connection requests.
This value is only used by the Maui Scheduler (see \fBSchedulerType\fR).
.TP
\fBSchedulerRootFilter\fR
Identifies whether or not RootOnly partitions should be filtered from
any external scheduling activities. Currently only used by the built-in
backfill scheduling module "sched/backfill" (see \fBSchedulerType\fR).
.TP
\fBSchedulerRootFilter\fR
Identifies whether or not RootOnly partitions should be filtered from
any external scheduling activities. If set to 0, then RootOnly partitions
are treated like any other partition. If set to 1, then RootOnly
partitions are exempt from any external scheduling activities. The
default value is 1. Currently only used by the built-in backfill
scheduling module "sched/backfill" (see \fBSchedulerType\fR).
.TP
\fBSchedulerType\fR
Identifies the type of scheduler to be used. Acceptable values include 
"sched/builtin" for the built-in FIFO scheduler, 
"sched/backfill" for a backfill scheduling module to augment 
the default FIFO scheduling, 
"sched/hold" to hold all newly arriving jobs if a file "/etc/slurm.hold" 
exists otherwise use the built-in FIFO scheduler, and 
"sched/wiki" for the Wiki interface to the Maui Scheduler. 
The default value is "sched/builtin".
Backfill scheduling will initiate lower-priority jobs if doing 
so does not delay the expected initiation time of any higher 
priority job. 
Note that this backfill scheduler implementation is relatively 
simple. It does not support partitions configured to to share 
resources (run multiple jobs on the same nodes) or support 
jobs requesting specific nodes.
When initially setting the value to "sched/wiki", any pending jobs 
must have their priority set to zero (held).
When changing the value from "sched/wiki", all pending jobs 
should have their priority change from zero to some large number.
The \fBscontrol\fR command can be used to change job priorities.
The \fBslurmctld\fR daemon must be restarted for a change in 
scheduler type to become effective.
.TP
\fBSelectType\fR
Identifies the type of node selection algorithm to be used. 
Acceptable values include 
"select/linear" for a one-dimentional array of nodes in which 
sequentially ordered nodes are preferable, and
"select/bluegene" for a three-dimentional Blue Gene system. 
The default value is "select/bluegene" for Blue Gene systems 
and "select/linear" for all other systems.
.TP
\fBSlurmUser\fR
The name of the user that the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon executes as. 
For security purposes, a user other than "root" is recommended.
The default value is "root". 
.TP
\fBSlurmctldDebug\fR
The level of detail to provide \fBslurmctld\fR daemon's logs. 
Values from 0 to 7 are legal, with `0' being "quiet" operation and `7' 
being insanely verbose.
The default value is 3.
.TP
\fBSlurmctldLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon's 
logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).
.TP
\fBSlurmctldPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the  \fBslurmctld\fR daemon 
may write its process id. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmctld.pid".
.TP
\fBSlurmctldPort\fR
The port number that the SLURM controller, \fBslurmctld\fR, listens 
to for work. The default value is SLURMCTLD_PORT as established at system 
build time.  NOTE: Either slurmctld and slurmd daemons must not execute 
on the same nodes or the values of \fBSlurmctldPort\fR and \fBSlurmdPort\fR
must be different.
.TP
\fBSlurmctldTimeout\fR
The interval, in seconds, that the backup controller waits for the 
primary controller to respond before assuming control. 
The default value is 120 seconds.
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBSlurmdDebug\fR
The level of detail to provide \fBslurmd\fR daemon's logs. 
Values from 0 to 7 are legal, with `0' being "quiet" operation and `7' being 
insanely verbose.
The default value is 3.
.TP
\fBSlurmdLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the  \fBslurmd\fR daemon's 
logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).
.TP
\fBSlurmdPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the  \fBslurmd\fR daemon may write 
its process id. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmd.pid".
.TP
\fBSlurmdPort\fR
The port number that the SLURM compute node daemon, \fBslurmd\fR, listens 
to for work. The default value is SLURMD_PORT as established at system 
build time. NOTE: Either slurmctld and slurmd daemons must not execute
on the same nodes or the values of \fBSlurmctldPort\fR and \fBSlurmdPort\fR
must be different.
.TP
\fBSlurmdSpoolDir\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a directory into which the \fBslurmd\fR
daemon's state information and batch job script information are written. This
must be a common pathname for all nodes, but should represent a directory which
is local to each node (reference a local file system). The default value
is "/var/spool/slurmd." \fBNOTE\fR: This directory is also used to store
\fBslurmd\fR's
shared memory lockfile, and \fBshould not be changed\fR unless the system
is being cleanly restarted. If the location of \fBSlurmdSpoolDir\fR is
changed and \fBslurmd\fR is restarted, the new daemon will attach to a
different shared memory region and lose track of any running jobs.
.TP
\fBSlurmdTimeout\fR
The interval, in seconds, that the SLURM controller waits for \fBslurmd\fR 
to respond before configuring that node's state to DOWN. 
The default value is 300 seconds.
A value of zero indicates the node should never be set DOWN if not responding.
May not exceed 65534.
.TP
\fBStateSaveLocation\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a directory into which the SLURM controller, 
\fBslurmctld\fR, saves its state (e.g. "/usr/local/slurm/checkpoint"). 
SLURM state will saved here to recover from system failures.
\fBSlurmUser\fR must be able to create files in this directory.
If you have a \fBBackupController\fR configured, this location should be 
readable and writable by both systems. 
The default value is "/tmp".
If any slurm daemons terminate abnormally, their core files will also be written 
into this directory.
.TP
\fBSrunEpilog\fR
Fully qualified pathname of an executable to be run by \fBsrun\fR following the
completion of a job step.  The command line arguments for the executable will
be the command and arguments of the job step.  This configuration parameter
may be overridden by \fBsrun\fR\'s \fB--epilog\fR parameter.
.TP
\fBSrunProlog\fR
Fully qualified pathname of an executable to be run by \fBsrun\fR prior to the
launch of a job step.  The command line arguments for the executable will
be the command and arguments of the job step.  This configuration parameter
may be overridden by \fBsrun\fR\'s \fB--prolog\fR parameter.
.TP
\fBSwitchType\fR
Identifies the type of switch or interconnect used for application
communications. 
Acceptable values include
"switch/none" for switches not requiring special processing for job launch 
or termination (Myrinet, Ethernet, and InfiniBand),
"switch/elan" for Quadrics Elan 3 or Elan 4 interconnect.
The default value is "switch/none".
All SLURM daemons, commands and running jobs must be restarted for a 
change in \fBSwitchType\fR to take effect.
If running jobs exist at the time \fBslurmctld\fR is restarted with a new 
value of \fBSwitchType\fR, records of all jobs in any state may be lost.
.TP
\fBTmpFS\fR
Fully qualified pathname of the file system available to user jobs for 
temporary storage. This parameter is used in establishing a node's \fBTmpDisk\fR
space. 
The default value is "/tmp".
.TP
\fBWaitTime\fR
Specifies how many seconds the srun command should by default wait after 
the first task terminates before terminating all remaining tasks. The 
"--wait" option on the srun command line overrides this value. 
If set to 0, this feature is disabled.
May not exceed 65534.
.LP
The configuration of nodes (or machines) to be managed by Slurm is 
also specified in \fB/etc/slurm.conf\fR. 
Only the NodeName must be supplied in the configuration file.
All other node configuration information is optional.
It is advisable to establish baseline node configurations, 
especially if the cluster is heterogeneous. 
Nodes which register to the system with less than the configured resources 
(e.g. too little memory), will be placed in the "DOWN" state to 
avoid scheduling jobs on them. 
Establishing baseline configurations will also speed SLURM's 
scheduling process by permitting it to compare job requirements 
against these (relatively few) configuration parameters and 
possibly avoid having to check job requirements  
against every individual node's configuration.
The resources checked at node registration time are: Procs, 
RealMemory and TmpDisk. 
While baseline values for each of these can be established 
in the configuration file, the actual values upon node 
registration are recorded and these actual values may be 
used for scheduling purposes (depending upon the value of 
\fBFastSchedule\fR in the configuration file.
.LP
Default values can be specified with a record in which 
"NodeName" is "DEFAULT". 
The default entry values will apply only to lines following it in the 
configuration file and the default values can be reset multiple times 
in the configuration file with multiple entries where "NodeName=DEFAULT".
The "NodeName="  specification must be placed on every line 
describing the configuration of nodes. 
In fact, it is generally possible and desirable to define the 
configurations of all nodes in only a few lines.
This convention permits significant optimization in the scheduling 
of larger clusters. 
In order to support the concept of jobs requiring consecutive nodes
on some architectures, 
node specifications should be place in this file in consecutive order.
If a specific node name is listed more than once in the configuration 
file only its "State" and "Reason" fields may be reset. 
This may be useful to record the state of nodes which are temporarily 
in a DOWN or DRAINED state without altering permanent configuration 
information as shown in the example.
A job step's tasks are allocated to nodes in order the nodes appear 
in the configuration file. There is presently no capability within 
SLURM to arbitarily order a job step's tasks.
.LP
A simple node range expression may optionally be used to specify 
ranges of nodes to avoid building a configuration file with large 
numbers of entries. The node range expression can contain one  
pair of square brackets with a sequence of comma separated 
numbers and/or ranges of numbers separated by a "-"
(e.g. "linux[0-64,128]", or "lx[15,18,32-33]"). 
Presently the numeric range must be the last characters in the 
node name (e.g. "unit[0-31]rack1" is invalid). 
The node configuration specified the following information:
.TP
\fBNodeName\fR
Name that SLURM uses to refer to a node. 
Typically this would be the string that "/bin/hostname -s" 
returns, however it may be an arbitary string if 
\fBNodeHostname\fR is specified.
If the \fBNodeName\fR is "DEFAULT", the values specified 
with that record will apply to subsequent node specifications   
unless explicitly set to other values in that node record or 
replaced with a different set of default values. 
For architectures in which the node order is significant, 
nodes will be considered consecutive in the order defined. 
For example, if the configuration for "NodeName=charlie" immediately 
follows the configuration for "NodeName=baker" they will be 
considered adjacent in the computer.
.TP
\fBNodeHostname\fR
The string that "/bin/hostname -s" returns. 
A node range expression can be used to specify a set of nodes.
If an expression is used, the number of nodes identified by 
\fBNodeHostname\fR on a line in the configuration file must 
be identical to the number of nodes identified by \fBNodeName\fR.
By default, the \fBNodeHostname\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBNodeName\fR.
.TP
\fBNodeAddr\fR
Name that a node should be referred to in establishing 
a communications path. 
This name will be used as an 
argument to the gethostbyname() function for identification. 
If a node range expression is used to designate multiple nodes, 
they must exactly match the entries in the \fBNodeName\fR
(e.g. "NodeName=lx[0-7] NodeAddr="elx[0-7]"). 
\fBNodeAddr\fR may also contain IP addresses.
By default, the \fBNodeAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBNodeName\fR.
.TP
\fBFeature\fR
A comma delimited list of arbitrary strings indicative of some 
characteristic associated with the node. 
There is no value associated with a feature at this time, a node 
either has a feature or it does not.  
If desired a feature may contain a numeric component indicating, 
for example, processor speed. 
By default a node has no features.
.TP
\fBRealMemory\fR
Size of real memory on the node in MegaBytes (e.g. "2048").
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBProcs\fR
Number of processors on the node (e.g. "2").
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBReason\fR
Identifies the reason for a node being in state "DOWN" or "DRAINED" 
or "DRAINING". Use quotes to enclose a reason having more than one 
word.
.TP
\fBState\fR
State of the node with respect to the initiation of user jobs. 
Acceptable values are "BUSY", "DOWN", "DRAINED", "DRAINING", "IDLE", 
and "UNKNOWN". "BUSY" indicates the node has been allocated work 
and should not be used in the configuration file.
"DOWN" indicates the node failed and is unavailable to be allocated work.
"DRAINED" indicates the node was configured unavailable to be 
allocated work and is presently not performing any work.
"DRAINING" indicates the node is unavailable to be allocated new 
work, but is completing the processing of a job.
"IDLE" indicates the node available to be allocated work, but 
has none at present
"UNKNOWN" indicates the node's state is undefined, but will be 
established when the \fBslurmd\fR daemon on that node registers.
The default value is "UNKNOWN".
.TP
\fBTmpDisk\fR
Total size of temporary disk storage in \fBTmpFS\fR in MegaBytes 
(e.g. "16384"). \fBTmpFS\fR (for "Temporary File System") 
identifies the location which jobs should use for temporary storage. 
Note this does not indicate the amount of free 
space available to the user on the node, only the total file 
system size. The system administration should insure this file 
system is purged as needed so that user jobs have access to 
most of this space. 
The Prolog and/or Epilog programs (specified in the configuration file) 
might be used to insure the file system is kept clean. 
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBWeight\fR
The priority of the node for scheduling purposes. 
All things being equal, jobs will be allocated the nodes with 
the lowest weight which satisfies their requirements. 
For example, a heterogeneous collection of nodes might 
be placed into a single partition for greater system
utilization, responsiveness and capability. It would be 
preferable to allocate smaller memory nodes rather than larger 
memory nodes if either will satisfy a job's requirements. 
The units of weight are arbitrary, but larger weights 
should be assigned to nodes with more processors, memory, 
disk space, higher processor speed, etc.
Weight is an integer value with a default value of 1.
.LP
The partition configuration permits you to establish different job 
limits or access controls for various groups (or partitions) of nodes. 
Nodes may be in only one partition. Jobs are allocated resources 
within a single partition. The partition configuration 
file contains the following information: 
.TP
\fBAllowGroups\fR
Comma separated list of group IDs which may execute jobs in the partition. 
If at least one group associated with the user attempting to execute the 
job is in AllowGroups, he will be permitted to use this partition.
Jobs executed as user root can use any partition without regard to
the value of AllowGroups.
If user root attempts to execute a job as another user (e.g. using 
srun's \-\-uid option), this other user must be in one of groups 
identified by AllowGroups for the job to succesfully execute.
The default value is "ALL". 
.TP
\fBDefault\fR
If this keyword is set, jobs submitted without a partition 
specification will utilize this partition.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO". 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBHidden\fR
Specifies if the partition and its jobs are to be hidden by default. 
Hidden partitions will by default not be reported by the SLURM 
APIs or commands.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO". 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBRootOnly\fR
Specifies if only user ID zero (i.e. user \fIroot\fR) may allocate resources 
in this partition. User root may allocate resources for any other user, 
but the request must be initiated by user root. 
This option can be useful for a partition to be managed by some 
external entity (e.g. a higher\-level job manager) and prevents 
users from directly using those resources.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO". 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBMaxNodes\fR
Maximum count of nodes which may be allocated to any single job.
The default value is "UNLIMITED", which is represented internally as -1.
This limit does not apply to jobs executed by SlurmUser or user root.
.TP
\fBMaxTime\fR
Maximum wall-time limit for any job in minutes. The default 
value is "UNLIMITED", which is represented internally as -1.
This limit does not apply to jobs executed by SlurmUser or user root.
.TP
\fBMinNodes\fR
Minimum count of nodes which may be allocated to any single job.
The default value is 1.
This limit does not apply to jobs executed by SlurmUser or user root.
.TP
\fBNodes\fR
Comma separated list of nodes which are associated with this 
partition. Node names may be specified using the 
node range expression syntax described above. A blank list of nodes 
(i.e. "Nodes= ") can be used if one wants a partition to exist, 
but have no resources (possibly on a temporary basis).
.TP
\fBPartitionName\fR
Name by which the partition may be referenced (e.g. "Interactive"). 
This name can be specified by users when submitting jobs.
.TP
\fBShared\fR
Ability of the partition to execute more than one job at a 
time on each node. Shared nodes will offer unpredictable performance 
for application programs, but can provide higher system utilization 
and responsiveness than otherwise possible. 
Possible values are "FORCE", "YES", and "NO".
"FORCE" makes all nodes in the partition available for sharing 
without user means of disabling it.
"YES" makes nodes in the partition available for sharing if and 
only if the individual jobs permit sharing (see the srun 
"--shared" option).
"NO" makes nodes unavailable for sharing under all circumstances. 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBState\fR
State of partition or availability for use.  Possible values 
are "UP" or "DOWN". The default value is "UP".
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
#
.br
# Sample /etc/slurm.conf for dev[0-25].llnl.gov
.br
# Author: John Doe
.br
# Date: 11/06/2001
.br
#
.br
ControlMachine=dev0 ControlAddr=edev0
.br
BackupController=dev1 BackupAddr=edev1
.br
#
.br
AuthType=auth/authd
.br
Epilog=/usr/local/slurm/epilog 
.br
Prolog=/usr/local/slurm/prolog
.br
FastSchedule=1
.br
FirstJobId=65536
.br
HeartbeatInterval=60
.br
InactiveLimit=120
.br
JobCompType=jobcomp/filetxt
.br
JobCompLoc=/var/log/slurm.job.log
.br
KillWait=30
.br
MaxJobCount=10000
.br
MinJobAge=3600
.br
PluginDir=/usr/local/lib:/usr/local/slurm/lib
.br
ReturnToService=0
.br
SchedulerType=sched/wiki
.br
SchedulerAuth=42 SchedulerPort=7004
.br
SlurmctldLogFile=/var/log/slurmctld.log
.br
SlurmdLogFile=/var/log/slurmd.log
.br
SlurmctldDebug=4 SlurmdDebug=3
.br
SlurmctldPort=7002 SlurmdPort=7003
.br
SlurmctldTimeout=300 SlurmdTimeout=300
.br
SlurmdSpoolDir=/usr/local/slurm/slurmd.spool
.br
StateSaveLocation=/usr/local/slurm/slurm.state
.br
SwitchType=switch/elan
.br
TmpFS=/tmp
.br
WaitTime=30
.br
JobCredentialPrivateKey=/usr/local/slurm/private.key
.br
JobCredentialPublicCertificate=/usr/local/slurm/public.cert
.br
#
.br
# Node Configurations
.br
#
.br
NodeName=DEFAULT Procs=2 RealMemory=2000 TmpDisk=64000
.br
NodeName=DEFAULT State=UNKNOWN
.br
NodeName=dev[0-25] NodeAddr=edev[0-25] Weight=16
.br
# Update records for specific DOWN nodes
.br
NodeName=dev20 State=DOWN Reason="power,ETA=Dec25"
.br
#
.br
# Partition Configurations
.br
#
.br
PartitionName=DEFAULT MaxTime=30 MaxNodes=10
.br
PartitionName=debug Nodes=dev[0-8,18-25] State=UP Default=YES
.br
PartitionName=batch Nodes=dev[9-17] State=UP MinNodes=4

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "FILES"
/etc/slurm.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBgethostbyname\fR(3), \fBgroup\fR(5), \fBhostname\fR(1), 
\fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBslurmctld\fR(8), \fBslurmd\fR(8),
\fBsyslog\fR(2)
