.TH MPE_Open_graphics 4 "12/6/2001" " " "MPE"
.SH NAME
MPE_Open_graphics \-  (collectively) opens an X Windows display 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpe.h" 
int MPE_Open_graphics( handle, comm, display, x, y, w, h, is_collective )
MPE_XGraph *handle;
MPI_Comm   comm;
char       display[MPI_MAX_PROCESSOR_NAME+4];
int        x, y;
int        w, h;
int        is_collective;
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- Communicator of participating processes
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B display 
- Name of X window display.  If null, display will be taken from
the DISPLAY variable on the process with rank 0 in 
.I comm
\&.
If that is
either undefined, or starts with w ":", then the value of display is
`hostname`:0
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B x,y 
- position of the window.  If 
.I (-1,-1)
, then the user should be
asked to position the window (this is a window manager issue).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B w,h 
- width and height of the window, in pixels.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B is_collective 
- true if the graphics operations are collective; this
allows the MPE graphics operations to make fewer connections to the 
display.  If false, then all processes in the communicator comm will 
open the display; this could exceed the number of connections that your
X window server allows.  Not yet implemented.
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B handle 
- Graphics handle to be given to other MPE graphics routines.
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
This is a collective routine.  All processes in the given communicator
must call it, and it has the same semantics as 
.I MPI_Barrier
(that is,
other collective operations can not cross this routine).


.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN INTERFACE 
The Fortran interface to this routine is different from its C
counterpart and it has an additional argument, ierr, at the end
of the argument list, i.e. the returned function value (the error
code) in C interface is returned as the additional argument in
Fortran interface.  The Fortran interface is invoked with the
CALL statement.

All MPI and MPE objects, MPI_Comm, MPE_XGraph and MPE_Color, are
of type INTEGER in Fortran.

.SH ADDITIONAL NOTES FOR FORTRAN INTERFACE 
If Fortran 
.I display
argument is an empty string, "", display will be
taken from the DISPLAY variable on the process with rank 0 in 
.I comm
\&.

The trailing blanks in Fortran CHARACTER string argument will be
ignored.
.SH LOCATION
mpe_graphics.c
