.TH Jumpshots 1 "9/2/2000" " " "Jumpshot"
.SH NAME
Jumpshots \-  Graphical Visualization Tools for Parallel Programs   
.SH DESCRIPTION
Jumpshots are graphical tools for understanding the performance of parallel
programs.  They are evolved from 
.I upshot
and are written in Java.  There are
2 versions of Jumpshots, 
.I Jumpshot-2
and 
.I Jumpshot-3
, distributed with MPE.
.I Jumpshot-2
interprets CLOG tracefiles and 
.I Jumpshot-3
interprets SLOG
tracefiles which is capable of handle big tracefiles (in GB range).


.SH CONFIGURING & BUILDING JUMPSHOTS
Since Jumpshots are distributed with MPE, the top level MPE configure
will configure both version of Jumpshots by default.  Through the use
of configure option 
.I --with-java=<JDK>
in MPE configure, user can supply
a user installed java installation to MPE to build both version of
Jumpshots.  Even though 
.I Jumpshot-3
can be built by both JDK 1.1 and
JDK 1.2, 
.I Jumpshot-2
can only be built with JDK 1.1.  Because of this
limitation, user is advised to use JDK 1.1 when building Jumpshots
for MPE.  However user can build 
.I Jumpshot-2
and 
.I Jumpshot-3
separately
from MPE with different versions of JDK.  If user chooses to do
that, be sure to install them back to the final install directory
share/, otherwise the logviewer script won't work properly.
A list of configure options is available by typing 
.I ./configure --help
in the
top-level 
.I jumpshot-2
and 
.I jumpshot-3
directories.

For detailed information on building 
.I Jumpshot-2
, refer to the README
in the top-level 
.I jumpshot-2
source directory at mpe/viewers/jumpshot-2.

For details information on building 
.I Jumpshot-3
, refer to the README
and UserGuide.txt in the top-level 
.I jumpshot-3
directory at
mpe/viewers/jumpshot-3.


.SH USAGE
Both versions of Jumpshots are installed in the final install directory,
share/.  End-users are not expected to call jumpshots directly, instead
there is a display program selector script called 
.I logviewer
located
in bin/.  This script will select the appropriate viewer based on
the logfile's file extension, ie. log file format.  For more information
about logviewer, do "logviewer -help".

For more details on the button definitions in 
.I Jumpshot-2
, click the
.I help
button on Jumpshot-2's main window to bring up the ASCII
version of button definitions.

For 
.I Jumpshot-3
, besides the ASCII version of button definitions
available by clicking in the main window's 
.I help
-> 
.I Manual
buttons,
there is also a HTML viewer which displays a step-by-step tour of
Jumpshot-3 of how and what user can learn from a typical logfile.  The
HTML tour can be invoked by clicking the main window's 
.I help
->
.I Tour
buttons.  New users of Jumpshots are advised to read the 
.I Tour
document.


.SH ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
.I Jumpshot-3
is written based on 
.I Jumpshot-2
but contains many enhanced new
features not found in Jumpshot-2, and also contains a lot more graphic
bugs fixed.  So users are advised to use Jumpshot-3 whenever possible.
.SH LOCATION
/home/MPI/mansrc/jumpshot
