.TH MPI_Graph_neighbors 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Graph_neighbors \-  Returns the neighbors of a node associated  with a graph topology 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Graph_neighbors ( MPI_Comm comm, int rank, int maxneighbors, 
                        int *neighbors )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator with graph topology (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B rank 
- rank of process in group of comm (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B maxneighbors 
- size of array neighbors (integer) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B neighbors 
- ranks of processes that are neighbors to specified process
(array of integer) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_TOPOLOGY 
- Invalid topology.  Either there is no topology 
associated with this communicator, or it is not the correct type (e.g.,
.I MPI_CART
when expecting 
.I MPI_GRAPH
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_RANK 
- Invalid source or destination rank.  Ranks must be between
zero and the size of the communicator minus one; ranks in a receive
(
.I MPI_Recv
, 
.I MPI_Irecv
, 
.I MPI_Sendrecv
, etc.) may also be 
.I MPI_ANY_SOURCE
\&.

.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
graph_nbr.c
