.TH slurmdbd "8" "February 2008" "slurmdbd 2.0" "Slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
slurmdbd \- Slurm Database Daemon.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmdbd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmdbd\fR provides a secure enterprise\-wide interface to a database
for Slurm. This is particularly useful for archiving accounting records.
.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-D\fR
Debug mode. Execute \fBslurmdbd\fR in the foreground with logging to stdout. 
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose operation. Multiple \fB\-v\fR's increase verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmctld\fR specific
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file
(e.g. timeouts).  However, this special configuration file will not be
used by the \fBslurmd\fR daemon or the Slurm programs, unless you
specifically tell each of them to use it. If you desire changing
communication ports, the location of the temporary file system, or
other parameters used by other Slurm components, change the common
configuration file, \fBslurm.conf\fR.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmdbd.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmctld\fR(8)
