.TH "bluegene.conf" "5" "April 2008" "bluegene.conf 1.2" "Slurm configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
bluegene.conf \- Slurm configuration file for BlueGene systems 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fB/etc/bluegene.conf\fP is an ASCII file which describes BlueGene specific 
SLURM configuration information. This includes specifications for bgblock 
layout, configuration, logging, etc.
.LP
Paramter names are case insensitive.
Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated 
as a comment through the end of that line. 
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of 
SLURM daemons, daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal, or execution 
of the command "scontrol reconfigure" unless otherwise noted.
.LP
The overall configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBAltBlrtsImage\fR
Alternative BlrtsImage.  This is an optional field only used for 
mulitple images on a system and should be followed by a Groups= with
the user groups allowed to use this image (i.e. Groups=da,jette) if 
Groups= is not stated then this image will be able to be used by all
groups. You can but as many alternative images as you want in the conf file.

.TP
\fBAltLinuxImage\fR
Alternative LinuxImage.  This is an optional field only used for 
mulitple images on a system and should be followed by a Groups= with
the user groups allowed to use this image (i.e. Groups=da,jette) if 
Groups= is not stated then this image will be able to be used by all
groups. You can but as many alternative images as you want in the conf file.

.TP
\fBAltMloaderImage\fR
Alternative MloaderImage.  This is an optional field only used for 
mulitple images on a system and should be followed by a Groups= with
the user groups allowed to use this image (i.e. Groups=da,jette) if 
Groups= is not stated then this image will be able to be used by all
groups. You can but as many alternative images as you want in the conf file.

.TP
\fBAltRamDiskImage\fR
Alternative RamDiskImage.  This is an optional field only used for 
mulitple images on a system and should be followed by a Groups= with
the user groups allowed to use this image (i.e. Groups=da,jette) if 
Groups= is not stated then this image will be able to be used by all
groups. You can but as many alternative images as you want in the conf file.

.TP
\fBBasePartitionNodeCount\fR
The number of c\-nodes per base partition.
There is no default value and this must be specified. (For bgl systems this
is usually 512)

.TP
\fBBlrtsImage\fR
BlrtsImage used for creation of all bgblocks.
There is no default value and this must be specified.

.TP
\fBBridgeAPILogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a into which the Bridge API logs are 
to be written.
There is no default value.

.TP
\fBBridgeAPIVerbose\fR
Specify how verbose the Bridge API logs should be.
The default value is 0.
.RS
.TP
\fB0\fR: Log only error and warning messages
.TP
\fB1\fR: Log level 0 and information messasges
.TP
\fB2\fR: Log level 1 and basic debug messages
.TP
\fB3\fR: Log level 2 and more debug message
.TP
\fB4\fR: Log all messages
.RE

.TP
\fBLayoutMode\fR
Describes how SLURM should create bgblocks.
.RS
.TP
\fBSTATIC\fR: Create and use the defined non\-overlapping bgblocks.
.TP
\fBOVERLAP\fR: Create and use the defined bgblocks, which may overlap.
It is highly recommended that none of the bgblocks have any passthroughs 
in the X\-dimension. 
\fBUse this mode with extreme caution.\fR
.TP
\fBDYNAMIC\fR: Create and use bglblocks as needed for each job.
Bgblocks will not be defined in the bluegene.conf file.
Dynamic partitioning may introduce fragmentation of resources 
and starvation of larger jobs.
\fBUse this mode with caution.\fR
.RE

.TP
\fBLinuxImage\fR
LinuxImage used for creation of all bgblocks.
There is no default value and this must be specified.

.TP
\fBMloaderImage\fR
MloaderImage used for creation of all bgblocks.
There is no default value and this must be specified.

.TP
\fBNodeCardNodeCount\fR
Number of c\-nodes per node card.
There is no default value and this must be specified. (For bgl systems this 
is usually 32)

.TP
\fBNumPsets\fR
The Numpsets used for creation of all bgblocks  equals this value 
multiplied by the number of  base partitions in the bgblock.
There is no default value and this must be specified.  The typical settings
for bgl systems goes as follows... For IO rich systems 64 is the value that 
should be used to create small blocks.  For systems that are not IO rich, or 
you do not wish to create small blocks, 8 is usually the number to use.

.TP
\fBRamDiskImage\fR
RamDiskImage used for creation of all bgblocks.
There is no default value and this must be specified.

.LP
Each bgblock is defined by the base partitions used to construct it.
Ordering is very important for laying out switch wires.  Please create
blocks with smap, and once done don't change the order of blocks created.
A bgblock is implicitly created containing all resources on the system.
Bgblocks must not overlap in static mode (except for implicitly 
created bgblock). This will be the case when smap is used to create 
a configuration file
All Nodes defined here must also be defined in the slurm.conf file.
Define only the numeric coordinates of the bgblocks here. The prefix
will be based upon the NodeName defined in slurm.conf

.TP
\fBBPs\fR
Define the XYZ coordinates of the bgblock end points.

.TP
\fBType\fR
Define the network connection type for the bgblock.
The default value is TORUS.
.RS
.TP
\fBMESH\fR: Communication occur over a mesh.
.TP
\fBSMALL\fR: The base partition is divided into more than one bgblock.
The administrator should define the number of single node cards and 
quarter base partition blocks using the options \fBNodeCards\fR and 
\fBQuarters\fR respectively. 
The total number of c\-nodes in defined blocks must not exceed
\fBBasePartitionNodeCnt\fR.
If not specified, the base partition will be divided into four 
blocks.
See example below.
.TP
\fBTORUS\fR: Communications occur over a torus (end\-points of network 
directly connect.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
.br
##################################################################
.br
# bluegene.conf
.br
# build by smap on 03/06/2006
.br
##################################################################
.br
BridgeAPILogFile=/var/log/slurm/bridgeapi.log
.br
BridgeAPIVerbose=2
.br
BlrtsImage=/bgl/BlueLight/ppcfloor/bglsys/bin/rts_hw.rts
.br
LinuxImage=/bgl/BlueLight/ppcfloor/bglsys/bin/zImage.elf
.br
MloaderImage=/bgl/BlueLight/ppcfloor/bglsys/bin/mmcs\-mloader.rts
.br
RamDiskImage=/bgl/BlueLight/ppcfloor/bglsys/bin/ramdisk.elf
.br
BasePartitionNodeCnt=512
.br
NodeCardNodeCnt=32
.br
NumPsets=64	# An I/O rich environment
.br
LayoutMode=STATIC
.br
##################################################################
.br
# LEAVE AS COMMENT, Full\-system bglblock, implicitly created
.br
# BPs=[000x333] Type=TORUS        # 4x4x4 = 64 midplanes
.br
##################################################################
.br
BPs=[000x133] Type=TORUS          # 2x4x4 = 32
.br
BPs=[200x233] Type=TORUS          # 1x4x4 = 16
.br
BPs=[300x313] Type=TORUS          # 1x2x4 =  8
.br
BPs=[320x323] Type=TORUS          # 1x1x4 =  4
.br
BPs=[330x331] Type=TORUS          # 1x1x2 =  2
.br
BPs=[332x332] Type=TORUS          # 1x1x1 =  1
.br
BPs=[333x333] Type=SMALL NodeCards=4 Quarters=3 # 1/16 * 4 + 1/4 * 3

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "FILES"
/etc/bluegene.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
