.TH slurmd "8" "Slurm Daemon" "June 2021" "Slurm Daemon"

.SH "NAME"
slurmd \- The compute node daemon for Slurm.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmd\fR is the compute node daemon of Slurm. It monitors all tasks
running on the compute node , accepts work (tasks), launches tasks, and kills
running tasks upon request.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Report node rebooted when daemon restarted. Used for testing purposes.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Clear system locks as needed. This may be required if \fBslurmd\fR terminated
abnormally.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-C\fR
Print actual hardware configuration and exit. The format of output is the same
as used in \fBslurm.conf\fR to describe a node's configuration plus its uptime.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-conf\-server <host>[:<port>]\fR
Comma\-separated list of controllers, the first being the primary slurmctld. A
port can (optionally) be specified for each controller. These hosts are where
the slurmd will fetch the configuration from when running in "configless" mode.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-d <file>\fR
Specify the fully qualified pathname to the \fBslurmstepd\fR program to be used
for shepherding user job steps. This can be useful for testing purposes.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-D\fR
Run slurmd in the foreground. Error and debug messages will be copied to stderr.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-f <file>\fR
Read configuration from the specified file. See \fBNOTES\fR below.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-F[feature]\fR
Start this node as a Dynamic Future node. It will try to match a node
definition with a state of \fBFUTURE\fR, optionally using the specified
feature to match the node definition.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-G\fR
Print Generic RESource (GRES) configuration (based upon slurm.conf GRES merged
with gres.conf contents for this node) and exit.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-L <file>\fR
Write log messages to the specified file.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-M\fR
Lock slurmd pages into system memory using mlockall (2) to disable
paging of the slurmd process. This may help in cases where nodes are
marked DOWN during periods of heavy swap activity. If the mlockall (2)
system call is not available, an error will be printed to the log
and slurmd will continue as normal.

It is suggested to set \fBLaunchParameters=slurmstepd_memlock\fR in
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5) when setting \fB\-M\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-n <value>\fR
Set the daemon's nice value to the specified value, typically a negative number.
Also note the \fBPropagatePrioProcess\fR configuration parameter.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-N <nodename>\fR
Run the daemon with the given nodename. Used to emulate a larger system
with more than one slurmd daemon per node. Requires that Slurm be built using
the \-\-enable\-multiple\-slurmd configure option.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Change working directory of slurmd to SlurmdLogFile path if possible, or to
SlurmdSpoolDir otherwise. If both of them fail it will fallback to /var/tmp.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose operation. Multiple \-v's increase verbosity.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.
.IP

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables can be used to override settings
compiled into slurmd.

.TP 20
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR
The location of the Slurm configuration file.  This is overridden by
explicitly naming a configuration file on the command line.
.IP

.SH "SIGNALS"

.TP
\fBSIGTERM SIGINT\fR
\fBslurmd\fR will shutdown cleanly, waiting for in\-progress rollups to finish.
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGHUP\fR
Reloads the slurm configuration files, similar to 'scontrol reconfigure'.
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGUSR2\fR
Reread the log level from the configs, and then reopen the log file.  This
should be used when setting up \fBlogrotate\fR(8).
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGPIPE\fR
This signal is explicitly ignored.
.IP

.SH "CORE FILE LOCATION"
If slurmd is started with the \fB\-D\fR option then the core file will be
written to the current working directory.
Otherwise if \fBSlurmdLogFile\fR is a fully qualified path name
(starting with a slash), the core file will be written to the same
directory as the log file.  Otherwise the core file will be written to
the \fBSlurmSpoolDir\fR directory, or "/var/tmp/" as a last resort. If
none of the above directories can be written, no core file will be
produced.

.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmd\fR specific
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file
(e.g. timeouts).  However, this special configuration file will not be
used by the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon or the Slurm programs, unless you
specifically tell each of them to use it. If you desire changing
communication ports, the location of the temporary file system, or
other parameters used by other Slurm components, change the common
configuration file, \fBslurm.conf\fR.

If you are using configless mode with a login node that runs a lot of client
commands, you may consider running \fBslurmd\fR on that machine so it can
manage a cached version of the configuration files. Otherwise, each client
command will use the DNS record to contact the controller and get the
configuration information, which could place additional load on the controller.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Copyright (C) 2008\-2010 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Copyright (C) 2010\-2022 SchedMD LLC.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "FILES"
.LP
/etc/slurm.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmctld\fR(8)
