.TH slurmctld "8" "Slurm Daemon" "June 2018" "Slurm Daemon"

.SH "NAME"
slurmctld \- The central management daemon of Slurm.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmctld\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmctld\fR is the central management daemon of Slurm. It monitors
all other Slurm daemons and resources, accepts work (jobs), and allocates
resources to those jobs. Given the critical functionality of \fBslurmctld\fR,
there may be a backup server to assume these functions in the event that
the primary server fails.
.TP
OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Clear all previous \fBslurmctld\fR state from its last checkpoint.
With this option, all jobs, including both running and queued, and all
node states, will be deleted.  Without this option, previously running
jobs will be preserved along with node \fIState\fR of DOWN, DRAINED
and DRAINING nodes and the associated \fIReason\fR field for those nodes.
NOTE: It is rare you would ever want to use this in production as all
jobs will be killed.

.TP
\fB\-D\fR
Run \fBslurmctld\fR in the foreground with logging copied to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-f <file>\fR
Read configuration from the specified file. See \fBNOTES\fR below.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR
Ignore errors found while reading in state files on startup.
.TP
\fB\-L <file>\fR
Write log messages to the specified file.

.TP
\fB\-n <value>\fR
Set the daemon's nice value to the specified value, typically a negative number.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Recover partial state from last checkpoint: jobs and node DOWN/DRAIN
state and reason information state.  No partition state is recovered.
This is the default action.

.TP
\fB\-R\fR
Recover full state from last checkpoint: jobs, node, and partition state.
Without this option, previously running jobs will be preserved along
with node \fIState\fR of DOWN, DRAINED and DRAINING nodes and the associated
\fIReason\fR field for those nodes. No other node or partition state will
be preserved.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose operation. Multiple \fB\-v\fR's increase verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables can be used to override settings
compiled into slurmctld.
.TP 20
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR
The location of the Slurm configuration file. This is overridden by
explicitly naming a configuration file on the command line.

.SH "CORE FILE LOCATION"
If slurmctld is started with the \fB\-D\fR option then the core file will be
written to the current working directory.
Otherwise if \fBSlurmctldLogFile\fR is a fully qualified path name (starting
with a slash), the core file will be written to the same directory as the
log file, provided SlurmUser has write permission on the directory.
Otherwise the core file will be written to the \fBStateSaveLocation\fR,
or "/var/tmp/" as a last resort. If none of the above directories have
write permission for SlurmUser, no core file will be produced.
The command "scontrol abort" can be used to abort the slurmctld daemon and
generate a core file.

.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmctld\fR specific
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file
(e.g. timeouts).  However, this special configuration file will not be
used by the \fBslurmd\fR daemon or the Slurm programs, unless you
specifically tell each of them to use it. If you desire changing
communication ports, the location of the temporary file system, or
other parameters used by other Slurm components, change the common
configuration file, \fBslurm.conf\fR.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Copyright (C) 2008\-2010 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmd\fR(8)
