.TH slurmdbd "8" "Slurm Daemon" "March 2020" "Slurm Daemon"

.SH "NAME"
slurmdbd \- Slurm Database Daemon.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmdbd\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmdbd\fR provides a secure enterprise\-wide interface to a database
for Slurm. This is particularly useful for archiving accounting records.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-D\fR
Run \fBslurmdbd\fR in the foreground with logging copied to stdout.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-n <value>\fR
Set the daemon's nice value to the specified value, typically a negative number.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-R[comma separated cluster name list]\fR
Reset the lft and rgt values of the associations in the given cluster list.
Lft and rgt values are used to distinguish hierarchical groups in the slurm
accounting database.  This option should be very rarely used.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Change working directory of slurmdbd to LogFile path if possible, or to /var/tmp
otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Verbose operation. Multiple \fB\-v\fR's increase verbosity.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Print version information and exit.
.IP

.SH "CORE FILE LOCATION"
If slurmdbd is started with the \fB\-D\fR option then the core file will be
written to the current working directory.
Otherwise if \fBLogFile\fR in "slurmdbd.conf" is a fully qualified
path name (starting with a slash), the core file will be written to
the same directory as the log file, provided SlurmUser has write
permission on the directory.  Otherwise the core file will be written
to "/var/tmp/" as a last resort.  If neither of the above directories
have write permission for SlurmUser, no core file will be produced.

.SH "SIGNALS"

.TP
\fBSIGTERM SIGINT\fR
\fBslurmdbd\fR will shutdown cleanly, waiting for in\-progress rollups to
finish.
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGABRT\fR
\fBslurmdbd\fR will perform a core dump, then exit.  In\-progress operations
are killed.
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGHUP\fR
Reloads the slurm configuration files, similar to 'scontrol reconfigure'.
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGUSR2\fR
Reread the log level from the configs, and then reopen the log file.  This
should be used when setting up \fBlogrotate\fR(8).
.IP

.TP
\fBSIGCHLD SIGUSR1 SIGTSTP SIGXCPU SIGQUIT SIGPIPE SIGALRM\fR
These signals are explicitly ignored.
.IP

.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmctld\fR specific
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file
(e.g. timeouts).  However, this special configuration file will not be
used by the \fBslurmd\fR daemon or the Slurm programs, unless you
specifically tell each of them to use it. If you desire changing
communication ports, the location of the temporary file system, or
other parameters used by other Slurm components, change the common
configuration file, \fBslurm.conf\fR.

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Copyright (C) 2010\-2022 SchedMD LLC.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmdbd.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmctld\fR(8)
