.TH p4 1 "7 November 1992"

.SH NAME 
p4 - portable programs for parallel processors - release 1.4

.SH DESCRIPTION
p4 is a package of procedures that support development of parallel programs in
C or Fortran that are portable across a wide variety of architectures.  For
the shared-memory model of parallel computation, p4 provides a set of
primitives from which monitors can be constructed, as well as a set of useful
monitors.  For the distributed-memory model, p4 provides typed send and
receive operations, and creation of processes according to a text file
describing files to be executed on by created processes and the machines to
execute them on.  A complete User's Guide is available in the doc subdirectory
of the p4 distribution.  It is written in LaTeXinfo, so that it can produce
either an info file (included) or a printed version.

.SH SYNOPSIS

#include "p4.h"

.SH OPTIONS
Several command line options are available to any program linked to 
the p4 package.
.TP 
-p4help   	get this information
.TP 
-p4pg <filename> procgroup file
.TP 
-p4dbg n   	set debug level
.TP 
-p4rdbg n  	set remote debug level
.TP 
-p4gm n 	set globmemsize
.TP 
-p4dmn <name>  	domainname
.TP 
-p4out <file>   output file for master
.TP 
-p4rout <file>  output file prefix for remote masters
.TP 
-p4ssport <port#> private port number for secure server
.TP 
-p4log          enable internal p4 logging by alog
.TP 
-p4version   	print the current p4 version number
.TP 
-p4norem	prompt user to start remote processes by hand

.SH FILES
p4.h, libp4.a - see your systems administrator for the installed location

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
p4 generates a wide variety of diagnostic messages.  See the user
manual for more details.

.SH EXAMPLE EXECUTION
To invoke a program linked with p4 using a procgroup file:
.RS
.nf
myprogram -pg procgroup_file_name
.fi
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR socket, etc.

.SH BUGS
There are no
.I known 
bugs at this time, but stay tuned.

