.TH "slurmdbd.conf" "5" "June 2008" "slurmdbd.conf 1.3" "Slurm configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
slurmdbd.conf \- Slurm Database Daemon (SlurmDBD) configuration file 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fB/etc/slurmdb.conf\fP is an ASCII file which describes Slurm Database 
Daemon (SlurmDBD) configuration information.
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter. 
.LP
The contents of the file are case insensitive except for the names of nodes 
and files. Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated 
as a comment through the end of that line. 
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of 
SlurmDbd or daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal unless otherwise noted.
.LP
This file should be only on the computer where SlurmDBD executes and 
should only be readable by the user which executes SlurmDBD (e.g. "slurm").
This file should be protected from unauthorized access since it
contains a database password.
The overall configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBArchiveAge\fR
Move data over this age out of the database to an archive.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of days.
If zero, then never archive the data.
The default value is zero.

.TP
\fBArchiveScript\fR
This script is executed periodically in order to transfer accounting
records out of the database into an archive. The script is executed 
with a single argument, the value of \fBArchiveTime\fR as described
below.

.TP
\fBAuthInfo\fR
Additional information to be used for authentication of communications 
with the Slurm control daemon (slurmctld) on each cluster.
The interpretation of this option is specific to the configured \fBAuthType\fR.
In the case of \fIauth/munge\fR, this can be configured to use a Munge daemon 
specifically configured to provide authentication between clusters while the 
default Munge daemon provides authentication within a cluster. 
In that case, this will specify the pathname of the socket to use.
The default value is NULL, which results in the default authentication 
mechanism being used.

.TP
\fBAuthType\fR
Define the authentication method for communications between SLURM 
components. 
Acceptable values at present include "auth/none", "auth/authd", 
and "auth/munge".
The default value is "auth/none", which means the UID included in 
communication messages is not verified. 
This may be fine for testing purposes, but 
\fBdo not use "auth/none" if you desire any security\fR.
"auth/authd" indicates that Brett Chun's authd is to be used (see
"http://www.theether.org/authd/" for more information).
"auth/munge" indicates that LLNL's Munge system is to be used
(this is the best supported authentication mechanism for SLURM, 
see "http://home.gna.org/munge/" for more information).
SlurmDbd must be terminated prior to changing the value of \fBAuthType\fR 
and later restarted.

.TP
\fBDbdAddr\fR
Name that \fBDbdHost\fR should be referred to in 
establishing a communications path to the Slurm Database Daemon. 
This name will be used as an argument to the gethostbyname() 
function for identification. For example, "elx0000" might be used 
to designate the ethernet address for node "lx0000". 
By default the \fBDbdAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBDbdHost\fR.
This value must be equal to the \fBSlurmDbdAddr\fR parameter in 
the slurm.conf file.

.TP
\fBDbdHost\fR
The name of the machine where the Slurm Database Daemon is executed. 
This should be a node name without the full domain name (e.g. "lx0001"). 
This value must be specified.

.TP
\fBDbdPort\fR
The port number that the Slurm Database Daemon (slurmdbd) listens 
to for work. The default value is SLURMDBD_PORT as established at system 
build time. If none is explicitly specified, it will be set to 6819.
This value must be equal to the \fBSlurmDbdPort\fR parameter in the
slurm.conf file.

.TP
\fBDebugLevel\fR
The level of detail to provide the Slurm Database Daemon's logs. 
Values from 0 to 7 are legal, with `0' being "quiet" operation and 
`7' being insanely verbose.
The default value is 3.

.TP
\fBJobPurge\fR
Individual job records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved indefinitely.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of days.
If zero, then job records are never purged.
The default value is 360 days.

.TP
\fBLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the Slurm Database Daemon's 
logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).

.TP
\fBMessageTimeout\fR
Time permitted for a round\-trip communication to complete
in seconds. Default value is 10 seconds. 

.TP
\fBPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the Slurm Database Daemon 
may write its process ID. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmdbd.pid".

.TP
\fBPluginDir\fR
Identifies the places in which to look for SLURM plugins. 
This is a colon\-separated list of directories, like the PATH 
environment variable. 
The default value is "/usr/local/lib/slurm".

.TP
\fBPrivateData\fR
This controls what type of information is hidden from regular users.
By default, all information is visible to all users.
User \fBSlurmUser\fR, \fBroot\fR, and users with AdminLevel=Admin can always 
view all information.
Multiple values may be specified with a comma separator.
Acceptable values include:
.RS
.TP
\fBaccounts\fR 
prevents users from viewing any account definitions unless they are 
coordinators of them.
.TP
\fBjobs\fR 
prevents users from viewing job records belonging
to other users unless they are coordinators of the association running the job
when using sacct.
.TP
\fBusers\fR  
prevents users from viewing information of any user 
other than themselves, this also makes it so users can only see 
associations they deal with.  
Coordinators can see associations of all users they are coordinator of, 
but can only see themselves when listing users.
.TP
\fBusage\fR  
prevents users from viewing usage of any other user.  
This applys to sreport.
.RE

.TP
\fBSlurmUser\fR
The name of the user that the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon executes as. 
This user must exist on the machine executing the Slurm Database Daemon
and have the same user ID as the hosts on which \fBslurmctld\fR execute.
For security purposes, a user other than "root" is recommended.
The default value is "root". 

.TP
\fBStepPurge\fR
Individual job step records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved indefinitely.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of days.
If zero, then job step records are never purged.
The default value is 30 days.

.TP
\fBStorageHost\fR
Define the name of the host the database is running where we are going
to store the data.
Ideally this should be the host on which slurmdbd executes.

.TP
\fBStorageLoc\fR
Specify the name of the database as the location where accounting 
records are written.

.TP
\fBStoragePass\fR
Define the password used to gain access to the database to store 
the job accounting data.

.TP
\fBStoragePort\fR
The port number that the Slurm Database Daemon (slurmdbd) communicates
with the database.

.TP
\fBStorageType\fR
Define the accounting storage mechanism type.
Acceptable values at present include 
"accounting_storage/gold", "accounting_storage/mysql", and
"accounting_storage/pgsql".
The value "accounting_storage/gold" indicates that account records
will be written to Gold
(http://www.clusterresources.com/pages/products/gold-allocation-manager.php),
which maintains its own database.
The value "accounting_storage/mysql" indicates that accounting records
should be written to a MySQL database specified by the 
\fStorageLoc\fR parameter.
The value "accounting_storage/pgsql" indicates that accounting records
should be written to a PostgreSQL database specified by the 
\fBStorageLoc\fR parameter.  This plugin is not complete and 
should not be used if wanting to use associations.  It will however work with
basic accounting of jobs and job steps.  If interested in 
completing please email slurm-dev@lists.llnl.gov.
This value must be specified.

.TP
\fBStorageUser\fR
Define the name of the user we are going to connect to the database
with to store the job accounting data.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
#
.br
# Sample /etc/slurmdbd.conf
.br
#
.br
ArchiveAge=365   # keep 1 year of data online
.br
ArchiveScript=/usr/sbin/slurm.dbd.archive
.br
AuthInfo=/var/run/munge/munge.socket.2
.br
AuthType=auth/munge
.br
DbdHost=db_host
.br
DebugLevel=4
.br
JobPurge=90
.br
StepPurge=30
.br
LogFile=/var/log/slurmdbd.log
.br
PidFile=/var/tmp/jette/slurmdbd.pid
.br
SlurmUser=slurm_mgr
.br
StoragePass=shazaam
.br
StorageType=accounting_storage/mysql
.br
StorageUser=database_mgr

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/slurmdbd.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5),
\fBslurmctld\fR(8), \fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
\fBsyslog\fR(2)
