.TH SQUEUE "1" "May 2008" "squeue 1.3" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
squeue \- view information about jobs located in the SLURM scheduling queue.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsqueue\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsqueue\fR is used to view job and job step information for jobs managed by 
SLURM. 

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Display information about jobs and job steps in all partions. 
This causes information to be displayed about partitions that are configured as 
hidden and partitions that are unavailable to user's group.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-noheader\fR
Do not print a header on the output.

.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing all options \fBsqueue\fR.

.TP
\fB\-\-hide\fR
Do not display information about jobs and job steps in all partions. By default, 
information about partitions that are configured as hidden or are not available 
to the user's group will not be displayed (i.e. this is the default behavior).

.TP
\fB\-i <seconds>\fR, \fB\-\-iterate=<seconds>\fR
Repeatedly gather and report the requested information at the interval
specified (in seconds).
By default, prints a time stamp with the header.

.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR
Specify the jobs to view.  This flag indicates that a comma separated list 
of jobs to view follows without an equal sign (see examples).
Defaults to all jobs.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Report more of the available information for the selected jobs or job steps, 
subject to any constraints specified.

.TP
\fB\-n <hostlist>\fR, \fB\-\-nodes=<hostlist>\fR
Report only on jobs allocated to the specified node or list of nodes.
This may either be the \fBNodeName\fR or \fBNodeHostname\fR
as defined in \fBslurm.conf(5)\fR in the event that they differ.
A node_name of \fBlocalhost\fR is mapped to the current host name.

.TP
\fB\-o <output_format>\fR, \fB\-\-format=<output_format>\fR
Specify the information to be displayed, its size and position 
(right or left justified).  
The default formats with various options are

.RS
.TP 15
\fIdefault\fR
"%.7i %.9P %.8j %.8u %.2t %.9M %.6D %R"
.TP
\fI\-l, \-\-long\fR
".7i %.9P %.8j %.8u %.8T %.9M %.9l %.6D %R"
.TP
\fI\-s, \-\-steps\fR
"%10i %.8j %.9P %.8u %.9M %N"
.RE

.IP
The format of each field is "%[.][size]type".
.RS
.TP 8
\fIsize\fR 
is the minimum field size.
If no size is specified, whatever is needed to print the information will be used.
.TP
\fI .\fR
indicates the output should be left justified.
By default, output is right justified.
.RE

.IP
Note that many of these \fItype\fR specifications are valid 
only for jobs while others are valid only for job steps.
Valid \fItype\fR specifications include: 

.RS
.TP 4
\fB%a\fR
Account associated with the job.
.TP
\fB%A\fR
Number of tasks created by a job step.
This reports the value of the \fBsrun \-\-ntasks\fR option.
.TP
\fB%b\fR 
Time at which the job began execution
.TP
\fB%c\fR 
Minimum number of CPUs (processors) per node requested by the job.
This reports the value of the \fBsrun \-\-mincpus\fR option with a 
default value of zero.
.TP
\fB%C\fR 
Number of CPUs (processors) requested by the job or allocated to 
it if already running.
.TP
\fB%d\fR 
Minimum size of temporary disk space (in MB) requested by the job.
.TP
\fB%D\fR 
Number of nodes allocated to the job or the minimum number of nodes 
required by a pending job. The actual number of nodes allocated to a pending 
job may exceed this number if the job specified a node range count (e.g. 
minimum and maximum node counts) or the the job specifies a processor 
count instead of a node count and the cluster contains nodes with varying 
processor counts.
.TP
\fB%e\fR 
Time at which the job ended or is expected to end (based upon its time limit)
.TP
\fB%E\fR
Job dependency. This job will not begin execution until the dependent job 
completes.  A value of zero implies this job has no dependencies.
.TP
\fB%f\fR 
Features required by the job.
.TP
\fB%g\fR 
Group name of the job.
.TP
\fB%G\fR
Group ID of the job.
.TP
\fB%h\fR
Can the nodes allocated to the job be shared with other jobs.
.TP
\fB%H\fR 
Minimum number of sockets per node requested by the job.
This reports the value of the \fBsrun \-\-minsockets\fR option.
.TP
\fB%i\fR
Job or job step id.
.TP
\fB%I\fR 
Minimum number of cores per socket requested by the job.
This reports the value of the \fBsrun \-\-mincores\fR option.
.TP
\fB%j\fR
Job or job step name.
.TP
\fB%J\fR 
Minimum number of threads per core requested by the job.
This reports the value of the \fBsrun \-\-minthreads\fR option.
.TP
\fB%l\fR
Time limit of the job in days\-hours:minutes:seconds. 
The value may be "NOT_SET" if not yet established or "UNLIMITED" for no limit.
.TP
\fB%m\fR
Minimum size of memory (in MB) requested by the job
.TP
\fB%M\fR
Time used by the job or job step in days\-hours:minutes:seconds. 
The days and hours are printed only as needed.
For job steps this field shows the elapsed time since execution began 
and thus will be inaccurate for job steps which have been suspended.
Clock skew between nodes in the cluster will cause the time to be inaccurate.
If the time is obviously wrong (e.g. negative), it displays as "INVALID".
.TP
\fB%n\fR
List of node names (or base partitions on BlueGene systems) explicitly 
requested by the job
.TP
\fB%N\fR
List of nodes allocated to the job or job step. In the case of a 
\fICOMPLETING\fR job, the list of nodes will comprise only those
nodes that have not yet been returned to service. This may result 
in the node count being greater than the number of listed nodes.
.TP
\fB%o\fR
Minimum number of nodes requested by the job.
.TP
\fB%O\fR
Are contiguous nodes requested by the job.
.TP
\fB%p\fR
Priority of the job (converted to a floating point number between 0.0 and 1.0).
Also see \fB%Q\fR.
.TP
\fB%P\fR 
Partition of the job or job step.
.TP
\fB%q\fR 
Comment associated with the job.
.TP
\fB%Q\fR
Priority of the job (generally a very large unsigned integer).
Also see \fB%p\fR.
.TP
\fB%r\fR
The reason a job is in its current state.
See the \fBJOB REASON CODES\fR section below for more information.
.TP
\fB%R\fR
For pending jobs: the reason a job is waiting for execution 
is printed within parenthesis.
For terminated jobs with failure: an explanation as to why the 
job failed is printed within parenthesis.
For all other job states: the list of allocate nodes. 
See the \fBJOB REASON CODES\fR section below for more information.
.TP
\fB%s\fR 
Node selection plugin specific data for a job. Possible data includes:
Geometry requirement of resource allocation (X,Y,Z dimensions), 
Connection type (TORUS, MESH, or NAV == torus else mesh), 
Permit rotation of geometry (yes or no), 
Node use (VIRTUAL or COPROCESSOR),
etc.
.TP
\fB%S\fR 
Start time of the job or job step.
.TP
\fB%t\fR 
Job state, compact form:
PD (pending), R (running), CA (cancelled), CG (completing), CD (completed), 
F (failed), TO (timeout), and NF (node failure).
See the \fBJOB STATE CODES\fR section below for more information.
.TP
\fB%T\fR 
Job state, extended form: 
PENDING, RUNNING, SUSPENDED, CANCELLED, COMPLETING, COMPLETED, FAILED, TIMEOUT, 
and NODE_FAIL.
See the \fBJOB STATE CODES\fR section below for more information.
.TP
\fB%u\fR 
User name for a job or job step.
.TP
\fB%U\fR 
User ID for a job or job step.
.TP
\fB%x\fR 
List of node names explicitly excluded by the job.
.TP
\fB%X\fR 
Number of requested sockets per node for the job.
.TP
\fB%Y\fR 
Number of requested cores per socket for the job.
.TP
\fB%Z\fR 
Number of requested threads per core for the job.
.TP
\fB%z\fR 
Extended processor information: number of requested sockets, cores, 
threads (S:C:T) per node for the job.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-U <account_list>\fR, \fB\-\-account=<account_list>\fR
Specify the accounts of the jobs to view. Accepts a comma separated 
list of account names. This have no effect when listing job steps.

.TP
\fB\-p <part_list>\fR, \fB\-\-partition=<part_list>\fR
Specify the partitions of the jobs or steps to view. Accepts a comma separated 
list of partition names.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-steps\fR
Specify the job steps to view.  This flag indicates that a comma separated list 
of job steps to view follows without an equal sign (see examples).
The job step format is "job_id.step_id". Defaults to all job steps.

.TP
\fB\-S <sort_list>\fR, \fB\-\-sort=<sort_list>\fR
Specification of the order in which records should be reported.
This uses the same field specifciation as the <output_format>.
Multiple sorts may be performed by listing multiple sort fields 
separated by commas.
The field specifications may be preceeded by "+" or "\-" for 
assending (default) and desending order respectively. 
For example, a sort value of "P,U" will sort the
records by partition name then by user id. 
The default value of sort for jobs is "P,t,\-p" (increasing partition 
name then within a given partition by increasing node state and then 
decreasing priority).
The default value of sort for job steps is "P,i" (increasing partition 
name then within a given partition by increasing step id).

.TP
\fB\-t <state_list>\fR, \fB\-\-states=<state_list>\fR
Specify the states of jobs to view.  Accepts a comma separated list of
state names or "all". If "all" is specified then jobs of all states will be 
reported. If no state is specified then pending, running, and completing
jobs are reported. Valid states (in both extended and compact form) include:
PENDING (PD), RUNNING (R), SUSPENDED (S), 
COMPLETING (CG), COMPLETED (CD), CANCELLED (CA),
FAILED (F), TIMEOUT (TO), and NODE_FAIL (NF). Note the \fB<state_list>\fR
supplied is case insensitve ("pd" and "PD" work the same).
See the \fBJOB STATE CODES\fR section below for more information.

.TP
\fB\-u <user_list>\fR, \fB\-\-user=<user_list>\fR
Specifies a comma separated list of users whose jobs or job steps are to be
reported. The list can consist of user names or user id numbers.

.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Print a brief help message listing the \fBsqueue\fR options.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Report details of squeues actions.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "JOB REASON CODES"
These codes identify the reason that a job is waiting for execution. 
A job may be waiting for more than one reason, in which case only 
one of those reasons is displayed.
.TP 20
\fBDependency\fR
This job is waiting for a dependent job to complete.
.TP
\fBNone\fR
No reason is set for this job.
.TP
\fBPartitionDown\fR
The partition required by this job is in a DOWN state.
.TP
\fBPartitionNodeLimit\fR
The number of nodes required by this job is outside of it's 
partitions current limits.
Can also indicate that required nodes are DOWN or DRAINED.
.TP
\fBPartitionTimeLimit\fR
The job's time limit exceeds it's partition's current time limit.
.TP
\fBPriority\fR
One or more higher priority jobs exist for this partition.
.TP
\fBResources\fR
The job is waiting for resources to become availble.
.TP
\fBNodeDown\fR
A node required by the job is down.
.TP
\fBBadConstraints\fR
The job's constraints can not be satisfied.
.TP
\fBSystemFailure\fR
Failure of the SLURM system, a file system, the network, etc.
.TP
\fBJobLaunchFailure\fR
The job could not be launched. 
This may be due to a file system problem, invalid program name, etc.
.TP
\fBNonZeroExitCode\fR
The job terminated with a non\-zero exit code.
.TP
\fBTimeLimit\fR
The job exhausted its time limit.
.TP
\fBInactiveLimit\fR
The job reached the system InactiveLimit.

.SH "JOB STATE CODES"
Jobs typically pass through several states in the course of their 
execution. 
The typical states are PENDING, RUNNING, SUSPENDED, COMPLETING, and COMPLETED.
An explanation of each state follows.
.TP 20
\fBCA  CANCELLED\fR
Job was explicitly cancelled by the user or system administrator.
The job may or may not have been initiated.
.TP
\fBCD  COMPLETED\fR
Job has terminated all processes on all nodes.
.TP
\fBCG  COMPLETING\fR
Job is in the process of completing. Some processes on some nodes may still be active.
.TP
\fBF   FAILED\fR
Job terminated with non\-zero exit code or other failure condition.
.TP
\fBNF  NODE_FAIL\fR
Job terminated due to failure of one or more allocated nodes.
.TP
\fBPD  PENDING\fR
Job is awaiting resource allocation.
.TP
\fBR   RUNNING\fR
Job currently has an allocation.
.TP
\fBS   SUSPENDED\fR
Job has an allocation, but execution has been suspended.
.TP
\fBTO  TIMEOUT\fR
Job terminated upon reaching its time limit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Some \fBsqueue\fR options may be set via environment variables. These 
environment variables, along with their corresponding options, are listed 
below. (Note: Commandline options will always override these settings.)
.TP 20
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR
The location of the SLURM configuration file.
.TP
\fBSQUEUE_ALL\fR
\fB\-a, \-\-all\fR
.TP
\fBSQUEUE_FORMAT\fR
\fB\-o <output_format>, \-\-format=<output_format>\fR
.TP
\fBSQUEUE_PARTITION\fR
\fB\-p <part_list>, \-\-partition=<part_list>\fR
.TP
\fBSQUEUE_SORT\fR
\fB\-S <sort_list>, \-\-sort=<sort_list>\fR
.TP
\fBSQUEUE_STATES\fR
\fB\-t <state_list>, \-\-states=<state_list>\fR
.TP
\fBSQUEUE_USERS\fR
\fB\-u <user_list>, \-\-users=<user_list>\fR

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
Print the jobs scheduled in the debug partition and in the 
COMPLETED state in the format with six right justified digits for 
the job id followed by the priority with an arbitrary fields size:
.br
# squeue -p debug -t COMPLETED -o "%.6i %p"
.br
 JOBID PRIORITY
.br
 65543 99993 
.br
 65544 99992 
.br
 65545 99991 
.ec

.eo
Print the job steps in the debug partition sorted by user:
.br
# squeue -s -p debug -S u
.br
  STEPID        NAME PARTITION     USER TIME_USED NODELIST(REASON)
.br
 65552.1       test1     debug    alice      0:23 dev[1-4]
.br
 65562.2     big_run     debug      bob      0:18 dev22
.br
 65550.1      param1     debug  candice   1:43:21 dev[6-12]
.ec

.eo
Print information only about jobs 12345,12345, and 12348:
.br
# squeue --jobs 12345,12346,12348
.br
 JOBID PARTITION NAME USER ST TIME_USED NODES NODELIST(REASON)
.br
 12345     debug job1 dave  R      0:21     4 dev[9-12]
.br
 12346     debug job2 dave PD      0:00     8 (Resources)
.br
 12348     debug job3 ed   PD      0:00     4 (Priority)
.ec

.eo
Print information only about job step 65552.1:
.br
# squeue --steps 65552.1
.br
  STEPID     NAME PARTITION    USER    TIME_USED NODELIST(REASON)
.br
 65552.1    test2     debug   alice        12:49 dev[1-4]
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBscancel\fR(1), \fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBsinfo\fR(1), 
\fBsmap\fR(1), \fBsrun\fR(1),
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3),
\fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3)
