.TH MPI_Group_translate_ranks 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Group_translate_ranks \-  Translates the ranks of processes in one group to  those in another group 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Group_translate_ranks ( MPI_Group group_a, int n, int *ranks_a, 
                             MPI_Group group_b, int *ranks_b )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B group1 
- group1 (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B n 
- number of ranks in  
.I ranks1
and 
.I ranks2
arrays (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B ranks1 
- array of zero or more valid ranks in 
.I group1

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B group2 
- group2 (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B ranks2 
- array of corresponding ranks in group2,  
.I MPI_UNDEFINED
when no 
correspondence exists. 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_GROUP 
- Null group passed to function.  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_RANK 
- Invalid source or destination rank.  Ranks must be between
zero and the size of the communicator minus one; ranks in a receive
(
.I MPI_Recv
, 
.I MPI_Irecv
, 
.I MPI_Sendrecv
, etc.) may also be 
.I MPI_ANY_SOURCE
\&.

.PD 1

.SH LOCATION
group_tranks.c
