.TH MPI_Comm_group 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Comm_group \-  Accesses the group associated with given communicator 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Comm_group ( 
        MPI_Comm comm, 
        MPI_Group *group )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- Communicator
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B group 
- Group in communicator
.PD 1

.SH USING 'MPI_COMM_NULL' WITH 'MPI_COMM_GROUP'

It is an error to use 
.I MPI_COMM_NULL
as one of the arguments to
.I MPI_Comm_group
\&.
The relevant sections of the MPI standard are

\&.
(2.4.1 Opaque Objects)
A null handle argument is an erroneous 
.I IN
argument in MPI calls, unless an
exception is explicitly stated in the text that defines the function.

\&.
(5.3.2. Group Constructors)
<no text in 
.I MPI_COMM_GROUP
allowing a null handle>

Previous versions of MPICH allow 
.I MPI_COMM_NULL
in this function.  In the
interests of promoting portability of applications, we have changed the
behavior of 
.I MPI_Comm_group
to detect this violation of the MPI standard.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
comm_group.c
