.TH MPI_Barrier 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Barrier \-  Blocks until all process have reached this routine. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Barrier ( 
        MPI_Comm comm )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
Blocks the caller until all group members have called it;
the call returns at any process only after all group members
have entered the call.

.SH ALGORITHM
If the underlying device cannot do better, a tree-like or combine
algorithm is used to broadcast a message wto all members of the
communicator.  We can modifiy this to use "blocks" at a later time
(see 
.I MPI_Bcast
).

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
barrier.c
