.TH MPI_Ssend_init 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Ssend_init \-  Builds a handle for a synchronous send 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Ssend_init( void *buf, int count, MPI_Datatype datatype, int dest, 
                   int tag, MPI_Comm comm, MPI_Request *request )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B buf 
- initial address of send buffer (choice) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B count 
- number of elements sent (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B datatype 
- type of each element (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B dest 
- rank of destination (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B tag 
- message tag (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B request 
- communication request (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COUNT 
- Invalid count argument.  Count arguments must be 
non-negative; a count of zero is often valid.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_TYPE 
- Invalid datatype argument.  May be an uncommitted 
MPI_Datatype (see 
.I MPI_Type_commit
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_TAG 
- Invalid tag argument.  Tags must be non-negative; tags
in a receive (
.I MPI_Recv
, 
.I MPI_Irecv
, 
.I MPI_Sendrecv
, etc.) may
also be 
.I MPI_ANY_TAG
\&.
The largest tag value is available through the 
the attribute 
.I MPI_TAG_UB
\&.

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_RANK 
- Invalid source or destination rank.  Ranks must be between
zero and the size of the communicator minus one; ranks in a receive
(
.I MPI_Recv
, 
.I MPI_Irecv
, 
.I MPI_Sendrecv
, etc.) may also be 
.I MPI_ANY_SOURCE
\&.

.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
ssend_init.c
