.TH MPI_Group_compare 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Group_compare \-  Compares two groups 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Group_compare ( MPI_Group group1, MPI_Group group2, int *result )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B group1 
- group1 (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B group2 
- group2 (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B result 
- integer which is 
.I MPI_IDENT
if the order and members of
the two groups are the same, 
.I MPI_SIMILAR
if only the members are the same,
and 
.I MPI_UNEQUAL
otherwise
.PD 1

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_GROUP 
- Null group passed to function.  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
groupcompare.c
