.TH "Slurm API" "3" "September 2003" "Morris Jette" "Slurm job completion calls"
.SH "NAME"
slurm_complete_job, slurm_complete_job_step \- Slurm job completion calls
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP
int \fBslurm_complete_job\fR (
.br 
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP, 
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_return_code\fP,
.br
	uint32_t \fIsystem_return_code\fP
.br 
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_complete_job_step\fR (
.br 
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP,
.br 
	uint32_t \fIjob_step_id\fP,
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_return_code\fP,
.br
	uint32_t \fIsystem_return_code\fP
.br 
);
.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fIjob_id\fP
Slurm job id number.
.TP
\fIjob_step_id\fp
Slurm job step id number.
.TP 
\fIjob_return_code\fP
Highest exit code of any task of the user's application. A non\-zero value is considered as an indication of job failure.
.TP 
\fIsystem_return_code\fP
Highest exit code of any system daemon executing the user's application. A non\-zero value is considered as an indication of failure, such as error setting the job's session ID, error creating a log file, etc.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
\fBslurm_complete_job\fR Note the termination of a job. This function may only be 
successfully executed by the job's owner or user root.
.LP 
\fBslurm_complete_job_step\fR Note the termination of a job step. This function 
may only be successfully executed by the job's owner or user root.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
On success, zero is returned. On error, \-1 is returned, and Slurm error code 
is set appropriately.
.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_VERSION_ERROR\fR Protocol version has changed, re\-link your code.
.LP
\fBESLURM_INVALID_JOB_ID\fR the requested job id does not exist. 
.LP
\fBESLURM_ALREADY_DONE\fR the specified job has already completed and can 
not be modified. 
.LP
\fBESLURM_ACCESS_DENIED\fR the requesting user lacks authorization for the requested action (e.g. trying to delete or modify another user's job). 
.LP
\fBESLURM_INTERCONNECT_FAILURE\fR failed to configure the node interconnect. 
.LP
\fBSLURM_PROTOCOL_SOCKET_IMPL_TIMEOUT\fR Timeout in communicating with 
SLURM controller.

.SH "NOTE"
These functions are included in the libslurm library, 
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fBslurm_get_errno\fR(3), \fBslurm_perror\fR(3), \fBslurm_strerror\fR(3)
