.TH "Slurm API" "3" "May 2006" "Morris Jette" "Slurm suspend, resume and requeue functions"

.SH "NAME"
slurm_suspend, slurm_resume, slurm_requeue \- Slurm suspend, resume and requeue functions

.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
#include <slurm/slurm.h>
.LP
.LP
int \fBslurm_suspend\fR (
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_resume\fR (
.br
	uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br
);
.LP
int \fBslurm_requeue\fR (
.br
        uint32_t \fIjob_id\fP
.br
);

.SH "ARGUMENTS"
.LP 
.TP
\fIjob_id\fP
SLURM job ID to perform the operation upon.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBslurm_suspend\fR
Suspend the specified job.
.LP
\fBslurm_resume\fR
Resume execution of a previously suspended job.
.LP
\fBslurm_requeue\fR
Requeue a running or pending SLURM batch job.
The job script will be restarted from its beginning, 
ignoring any previous checkpoint.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
Zero is returned upon success. 
On error, \-1 is returned, and the Slurm error code is set appropriately.
.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
\fBESLURM_DISABLED\fR the operation is currently disabled
(e.g. attempt to suspend a job that is not running,
resume a job that is not currently suspended, or
requeue a job on which the operation has been disabled).
.LP
\fBESLURM_INVALID_JOB_ID\fR the requested job id does not exist. 
.LP
\fBESLURM_ACCESS_DENIED\fR the requesting user lacks authorization for the 
requested action (e.g. not user root or SlurmUser). 
.LP
\fBESLURM_JOB_PENDING\fR the requested job is still pending.
.LP
\fBESLURM_ALREADY_DONE\fR the requested job has already completed.
.LP
\fBESLURM_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR the requested operation is not supported on this system.

.SH "NOTE"
These functions are included in the libslurm library, 
which must be linked to your process for use
(e.g. "cc \-lslurm myprog.c").

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2005\-2006 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
LLNL\-CODE\-402394.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fBscontrol\fR(1)
