.TH SQUEUE "1" "February 2004" "squeue 0.2" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
squeue \- Used to view information of jobs located in the scheduling queue.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsqueue\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsqueue\fR is used to view job and job step information for jobs managed by 
\fBslurmctld\fR. 

.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing all options \fBsqueue\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Print a brief help message listing the \fBsqueue\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-noheader\fR
Do not print a header on the output.
.TP
\fB\-i <seconds>\fR, \fB\-\-iterate=<seconds>\fR
Repeatedly gather and report the requested information at the interval
specified (in seconds).
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR
Specify the jobs to view.  This flag indicates that a comma separated list 
of jobs to view follows without an equal sign (see examples).
Defaults to all jobs.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Report more of the available information for the selected jobs or job steps, 
subject to any constraints specified.
.TP
\fB\-o <output_format>\fR, \fB\-\-format=<output_format>\fR
Specify the information to be displayed.  
The default format for jobs is "%.7i %.9P %.8j %.8u  %.2t %.9M %.6D %N".
If the \fB\-\-long\fR option is specified, the default job format is 
".7i %.9P %.8j %.8u %.8T %.9M %.9l %.6D %N".
The default format for job steps is "%10i %.9P %.8u %.9M %N".

The field specifications available include: 
.br
\fB%b\fR Time at which the job began execution
.br
\fB%c\fR Minimum number of CPUs (processors) requested by the job
.br
\fB%C\fR Number of CPUs (processors) allocated to the job or job step
.br
\fB%d\fR Minimum size of temporary disk space (in MB) requested by the job
.br
\fB%D\fR Number of nodes allocated to the job or the minimum number of nodes 
required by a pending job. The actual number of nodes allocated to a pending 
job may exceed this number of the job specified a node range count or the 
cluster contains nodes with varying processor counts.
.br
\fB%e\fR Time at which the job ended or is expected to end (based upon its time
limit)
.br
\fB%f\fR Features required by the job
.br
\fB%h\fR Can the nodes allocated to the job be shared with other jobs
.br
\fB%i\fR Job or job step id
.br
\fB%j\fR Job name
.br
\fB%l\fR Time limit of the job in days:hours:minutes:seconds. 
The value may be "NOT_SET" if not yet established or "UNLIMITED" for no limit.
.br
\fB%m\fR Minimum size of memory (in MB) requested by the job
.br
\fB%M\fR Time used by the job in days:hours:minutes:seconds. 
The days and hours are printed only as needed.
.br
\fB%n\fR List of node names explicitly requested by the job
.br
\fB%N\fR List of nodes allocated to the job or job step
.br
\fB%o\fR Minimum number of nodes requested by the job
.br
\fB%O\fR Are contiguous nodes requested by the job
.br
\fB%p\fR Priority of the job (converted to a floating point number 
between 0.0 and 1.0
.br
\fB%P\fR Partition of the job or job step
.br
\fB%S\fR Start time of the job or job step
.br
\fB%t\fR Job state, compact form
.br
\fB%T\fR Job state, extended form
.br
\fB%U\fR User id
.br
\fB%u\fR User name
.br
\fB%.<*>\fR right justification of the field
.br 
\fB%<Number><*>\fR size of field
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Display all job information.
.TP
\fB\-p <part_list>\fR, \fB\-\-partition=<part_list>\fR
Specify the partitions of the jobs or steps to view. Accepts a comma separated 
list of partition names.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-steps\fR
Specify the job steps to view.  This flag indicates that a comma separated list 
of job steps to view follows without an equal sign (see examples).
The job step format is "job_id.step_id". Defaults to all job steps.
.TP
\fB\-S <sort_list>\fR, \fB\-\-sort=<sort_list>\fR
Specification of the order in which records should be reported.
This uses the same field specifciation as the <output_format>.
Multiple sorts may be performed by listing multiple sort fields 
separated by commas.
The field specifications may be preceeded by "+" or "-" for 
assending (default) and desending order respectively. 
For example, a sort value of "P,U" will sort the
records by partition name then by user id. 
The default value of sort for jobs is "P,t,-p" (increasing partition 
name then within a given partition by increasing node state and then 
decreasing priority).
The default value of sort for job steps is "P,i" (increasing partition 
name then within a given partition by increasing step id).
.TP
\fB\-t <state_list>\fR, \fB\-\-states=<state_list>\fR
Specify the states of jobs to view.  Accepts a comma separated list of
state names or "all". If "all" is specified then jobs of all states will be 
reported. If no state is specified then pending, running, and completing
jobs are reported. Valid states (in both extended and compact form) include:
pending (pd), running (r), completing (cg), completed (cd), failed (f),
timeout (to), and node_fail (nf).
.TP
\fB\-u <user_list>\fR, \fB\-\-users=<user_list>\fR
Specifies a comma separated list of users whose jobs or job steps are to be
reported.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Report details of squeues actions.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.

.SH "JOB STATE CODES"
.TP 17
CD  COMPLETED
Job has terminated all processes on all nodes.
.TP
CG  COMPLETING
Job is in the process of completing. Some processes on some nodes may still be active.
.TP
F   FAILED
Job terminated with non-zero exit code or other failure condition.
.TP
NF  NODE_FAIL
Job terminated due to failure of one or more allocated nodes.
.TP
PD  PENDING
Job is awaiting resource allocation.
.TP
TO  TIMEOUT
Job terminated upon reaching its time limit.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Some \fBsqueue\fR options may be set via environment variables. These 
environment variables, along with their corresponding options, are listed 
below. (Note: Commandline options will always override these settings.)
.TP 20
SQUEUE_FORMAT
\fB\-o <output_format>, \-\-format=<output_format>\fR
.TP
SQUEUE_PARTITION
\fB\-p <part_list>, \-\-partition=<part_list>\fR
.TP
SQUEUE_SORT
\fB\-S <sort_list>, \-\-sort=<sort_list>\fR
.TP
SQUEUE_STATES
\fB\-t <state_list>, \-\-states=<state_list>\fR
.TP
SQUEUE_USERS
\fB\-u <user_list>, \-\-users=<user_list>\fR

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
Print the jobs scheduled in the debug partition and in the 
COMPLETED state in the format with six right justified digits for 
the job id followed by the priority with an arbitrary fields size:
.br
# squeue -p debug -t COMPLETED -o "%.6i %p"
.br
 JOBID PRIORITY
.br
 65543 99993 
.br
 65544 99992 
.br
 65545 99991 
.ec

.eo
Print the job steps in the debug partition sorted by user:
.br
# squeue -s -p debug -S u
.br
  STEPID    PARTITION     USER TIME_USED NODELIST
.br
 65552.1        debug    alice      0:23 dev[1-4]
.br
 65562.2        debug      bob      0:18 dev22
.br
 65550.1        debug  candice   1:43:21 dev[6-12]
.ec

.eo
Print information only about jobs 12345 and 12346:
.br
# squeue --jobs 12345,12346
.br
 JOBID PARTITION NAME USER ST TIME_USED NODES NODELIST
.br
 12345     debug job1 dave  R      0:21     4 dev[9-12]
.br
 12346     debug job2 dave PD      0:00     8
.ec

.eo
Print information only about job step 65552.1:
.br
# squeue --steps 65552.1
.br
  STEPID    PARTITION    USER    TIME_USED NODELIST
.br
 65552.1        debug   alice        12:49 dev[1-4]
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBsinfo\fR(1),
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3),
\fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3)
