.TH "slurm.conf" "5" "October 2003" "Morris Jette" "Slurm configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
slurm.conf \- Slurm configuration file 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fB/etc/slurm.conf\fP is an ASCI file which describes general Slurm configuration 
information, the nodes to be managed, information about how those nodes are 
grouped into partitions, and various scheduling parameters associated with 
those partitions.  The file location can be modified at system build time using 
the DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter. 
.LP
The contents of the file are case insensitive except for the names of nodes 
and partitions. Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated 
as a comment through the end of that line. 
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.

.LP
The overall configuration parameters available include:
.TP
\fBAuthType\fR
Define the authentication method for communcations between SLURM 
components. 
Acceptable values at present include "auth/none" and "auth/authd".
The default value is "auth/none", which means the UID included in 
communication messages is not verified. 
"auth/authd" indicates that Brett Chun's authd is to be used (see
"http://www.theether.org/authd/" for more information).
.TP
\fBBackupAddr\fR
Name that \fBBackupController\fR should be referred to in 
establishing a communications path. This name will 
be used as an argument to the gethostbyname() function for 
identification. For example, "elx0000" might be used to designate 
the ethernet address for node "lx0000". 
By default the \fBBackupAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBBackupController\fR.
.TP
\fBBackupController\fR
The name of the machine where SLURM control functions are to be 
executed in the event that \fBControlMachine\fR fails. This node
may also be used as a compute server if so desired. It will come into service 
as a controller only upon the failure of ControlMachine and will revert 
to a "standby" mode when the ControlMachine becomes available once again. 
This should be a node name without the full domain name (e.g. "lx0002"). 
While not essential, it is recommended that you specify a backup controller.
.TP
\fBControlAddr\fR
Name that \fBControlMachine\fR should be referred to in 
establishing a communications path. This name will 
be used as an argument to the gethostbyname() function for 
identification. For example, "elx0000" might be used to designate 
the ethernet address for node "lx0000". 
By default the \fBControlAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBControlMachine\fR.
.TP
\fBControlMachine\fR
The name of the machine where SLURM control functions are executed. 
This should be a node name without the full domain name (e.g. "lx0001"). 
This value must be specified.
.TP
\fBEpilog\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a script to execute as user root on every 
node when a user's job completes (e.g. "/usr/local/slurm/epilog"). This may 
be used to purge files, disable user login, etc. By default there is no epilog.
.TP
\fBFastSchedule\fR
If set to 1 (the default), then consider the configuration of each node 
to be that specified in the configuration file. If set to 0, then base 
scheduling decisions upon the actual configuration of each individual node. 
If the number of node configuration entries in the configuration file 
is significantly lower than the number of nodes, setting FastSchedule to 
1 will permit much faster scheduling decisions to be made. 
(The scheduler can just check the values in a few configuration records 
instead of possibly thousands of node records. If a job can't be initiated 
immediately, the scheduler may execute these tests repeatedly.)
.TP
\fBFirstJobId\fR
The job id to be used for the first submitted to SLURM without a 
specific requested value. Job id values generated will incremented by 1 
for each subsequent job. This may be used to provide a meta-scheduler 
with a job id space which is disjoint from the interactive jobs. 
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBHashBase\fR
If the node names include a sequence number, this value defines the 
base to be used in building a hash table based upon node name. Value of 8 
and 10 are recognized for octal and decimal sequence numbers respectively.
The value of zero is also recognized for node names lacking a sequence number. 
The use of node names containing a numeric suffix will provide faster 
operation for larger clusters. The default value is 10.
.TP
\fBHeartbeatInterval\fR
The interval, in seconds, at which the SLURM controller tests the 
status of other daemons. The default value is 30 seconds.
.TP
\fBInactiveLimit\fR
The interval, in seconds, a job is permitted to be inactive (with 
no active job steps) before it is terminated. This prevents forgotten 
jobs to be purged in a timely fashion without waiting for their time 
limit to be reached. The default value is unlimited (zero). 
.TP
\fBJobCredentialPrivateKey\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file containing a private key used for 
authentication by Slurm daemons.
.TP
\fBJobCredentialPublicCertificate\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file containing a public key used for 
authentication by Slurm daemons.
.TP
\fBKillWait\fR
The interval, in seconds, given to a job's processes between the 
SIGTERM and SIGKILL signals upon reaching its time limit. 
If the job fails to terminate gracefully 
in the interval specified, it will be forcably terminated. 
The default value is 30 seconds.
.TP
\fBMaxJobCount\fR
The maximum number of jobs SLURM can have in its active database 
at one time. Set the values of \fBMaxJobCount\fR and \fBMinJobAge\fR 
to insure the slurmctld daemon does not exhaust its memory or other 
resources. Once this limit is reached, requests to submit additional 
jobs will fail. The default value is 2000 jobs. This value may not 
be reset via "scontrol reconfig". It only takes effect upon restart 
of the slurmctld daemon.
.TP
\fBMinJobAge\fR
The minimum age of a completed job before its record is purged from 
SLURM's active database. Set the values of \fBMaxJobCount\fR and 
\fBMinJobAge\fR to insure the slurmctld daemon does not exhaust 
its memory or other resources. The default value is 300 seconds. 
A value of zero prevents any job record purging.
.TP
\fBPluginDir\fR
Identifies the places in which to look for SLURM plugins. 
This is a colon-separated list of directories, like the PATH 
environment variable. 
The default value is "/usr/local/lib/slurm".
.TP
\fBPrioritize\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a program to execute in order to establish 
the initial priority of a newly submitted job. By default there is no 
prioritization program and each job gets a priority lower than that of 
any existing jobs.
.TP
\fBProlog\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a script to execute as user root on every 
node when a user's job begins execution (e.g. "/usr/local/slurm/prolog"). 
This may be used to purge files, enable user login, etc. By default there 
is no prolog.
.TP
\fBReturnToService\fR
If set to 1, then a DOWN node will become available for use 
upon registration. The default value is 0, which 
means that a node will remain in the DOWN state 
until a system administrator explicitly changes its state
(even if the slurmd daemon registers and resumes communications).
.TP
\fBSlurmUser\fR
The name of the user that the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon executes as. 
For security purposes, a user other than "root" is recommended. 
.TP
\fBSlurmctldDebug\fR
The level of detail to provide \fBslurmctld\fR daemon's logs. 
Values from 0 to 7 are legal, with `0' being "quiet" operation and `7' being insanely verbose.
The default value is 3.
.TP
\fBSlurmctldLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon's logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).
.TP
\fBSlurmctldPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the  \fBslurmctld\fR daemon may write its process id. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmctld.pid".
.TP
\fBSlurmctldPort\fR
The port number that the SLURM controller, \fBslurmctld\fR, listens 
to for work. The default value is SLURMCTLD_PORT as established at system 
build time.  NOTE: Either slurmctld and slurmd daemons must not execute 
on the same nodes or the values of \fBSlurmctldPort\fR and \fBSlurmdPort\fR
must be different.
.TP
\fBSlurmctldTimeout\fR
The interval, in seconds, that the backup controller waits for the 
primary controller to respond before assuming control. 
The default value is 300 seconds.
.TP
\fBSlurmdDebug\fR
The level of detail to provide \fBslurmd\fR daemon's logs. 
Values from 0 to 7 are legal, with `0' being "quiet" operation and `7' being insanely verbose.
The default value is 3.
.TP
\fBSlurmdLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the  \fBslurmd\fR daemon's logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).
.TP
\fBSlurmdPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the  \fBslurmd\fR daemon may write 
its process id. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmd.pid".
.TP
\fBSlurmdPort\fR
The port number that the SLURM compute node daemon, \fBslurmd\fR, listens 
to for work. The default value is SLURMD_PORT as established at system 
build time. NOTE: Either slurmctld and slurmd daemons must not execute
on the same nodes or the values of \fBSlurmctldPort\fR and \fBSlurmdPort\fR
must be different.
.TP
\fBSlurmdSpoolDir\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a directory into which the \fBslurmd\fR
daemon's state information and batch job script information are written. This
must be a common pathname for all nodes, but should represent a directory which
is local to each node (reference a local file system). The default value
is "/var/spool/slurmd." \fBNOTE\fR: This directory is also used to store \fBslurmd\fR's
shared memory lockfile, and \fBshould not be changed\fR unless the system
is being cleanly restarted. If the location of \fBSlurmdSpoolDir\fR is
changed and \fBslurmd\fR is restarted, the new daemon will attach to a
different shared memory region and lose track of any running jobs.
.TP
\fBSlurmdTimeout\fR
The interval, in seconds, that the SLURM controller waits for \fBslurmd\fR 
to respond before configuring that node's state to DOWN. 
The default value is 300 seconds.
A value of zero indicates the node should never be set DOWN if not respnding.
.TP
\fBStateSaveLocation\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a directory into which the slurm controller, 
\fBslurmctld\fR, saves its state (e.g. "/usr/local/slurm/checkpoint"). SLURM 
state will saved here to recover from system failures. The default value is "/tmp".
If any slurm daemons terminate abnormally, their core files will also be written 
into this directory.
.TP
\fBTmpFS\fR
Fully qualified pathname of the file system available to user jobs for 
temporary storage. This parameter is used in establishing a node's \fBTmpDisk\fR space. 
The default value is "/tmp".
.TP
\fBWaitTime\fR
Specifies how many seconds the srun command should by default wait after 
the first task terminates before terminating all remaining tasks. The 
"--wait" option on the srun command line overrides this value. 
If set to 0, this feature is disabled.
.LP
The configuration of nodes (or machines) to be managed by Slurm is 
also specified in \fB/etc/slurm.conf\fR. 
Only the NodeName must be supplied in the configuration file.
All other node configuration information is optional.
It is advisable to establish baseline node configurations, 
especially if the cluster is heterogeneous. 
Nodes which register to the system with less than the configured resources 
(e.g. too little memory), will be placed in the "DOWN" state to 
avoid scheduling jobs on them. 
Establishing baseline configurations will also speed SLURM's 
scheduling process by permitting it to compare job requirements 
against these (relatively few) configuration parameters and 
possibly avoid having to check job requirements  
against every individual node's configuration.
The resources checked at node registration time are: Procs, 
RealMemory and TmpDisk. 
While baseline values for each of these can be established 
in the configuration file, the actual values upon node 
registration are recorded and these actual values may be 
used for scheduling purposes (depending upon the value of 
\fBFastSchedule\fR in the configuration file.
.LP
Default values can be specified with a record in which 
"NodeName" is "DEFAULT". 
The default entry values will apply only to lines following it in the 
configuration file and the default values can be reset multiple times 
in the configuration file with multiple entries where "NodeName=DEFAULT".
The "NodeName="  specification must be placed on every line 
describing the configuration of nodes. 
In fact, it is generally possible and desirable to define the 
configurations of all nodes in only a few lines.
This convention permits significant optimization in the scheduling 
of larger clusters. 
In order to support the concept of jobs requiring consecutive nodes
on some architectures, 
node specifications should be place in this file in consecutive order.
If a specific node name is listed more than once in the configuration 
file only its "State" and "Reason" fields may be reset. 
This may be useful to record the state of nodes which are temporarily 
in a DOWN or DRAINED state without altering permanent configuration 
information as shown in the example.
The node configuration specifies the following information: 
.TP
\fBNodeName\fR
Name of a node as returned by the hostname command, 
without the full domain name (e.g. "lx0012"). 
A simple node range expression may optionally 
be used to specify ranges 
of nodes to avoid building a configuration file with large numbers 
of entries. The node range expression can contain one  
pair of square brackets with a sequence of comma separated 
numbers and/or ranges of numbers separated by a "-"
(e.g. "linux[0-64,128]", or "lx[15,18,32-33]"). 
If the NodeName is "DEFAULT", the values specified 
with that record will apply to subsequent node specifications   
unless explicitly set to other values in that node record or 
replaced with a different set of default values. 
For architectures in which the node order is significant, 
nodes will be considered consecutive in the order defined. 
For example, if the configuration for NodeName=charlie immediately 
follows the configuration for NodeName=baker they will be 
considered adjacent in the computer.
.TP
\fBFeature\fR
A comma delimited list of arbitrary strings indicative of some 
characteristic associated with the node. 
There is no value associated with a feature at this time, a node 
either has a feature or it does not.  
If desired a feature may contain a numeric component indicating, 
for example, processor speed. 
By default a node has no features.
.TP
\fBNodeAddr\fR
Name that a node should be referred to in establishing 
a communications path. This name will be used as an 
argument to the gethostbyname() function for identification. 
For example, "elx0012" might be used to designate 
the ethernet address for node "lx0012". A simple node range 
expression may optionally be used to specify ranges 
of nodes. The node range expression can contain one  
pair of square brackets with a sequence of comma separated 
numbers and/or ranges of numbers separated by a "-"
(e.g. "elinux[0-64,128]"). 
If a node range expression is used to designate multiple nodes, 
they must exactly match the entries in the \fBNodeName\fR
(e.g. "NodeName=lx[0-7] NodeAddr="elx[0-7]"). 
By default the \fBNodeAddr\fR will be identical in value to 
\fBNodeName\fR.
.TP
\fBRealMemory\fR
Size of real memory on the node in MegaBytes (e.g. "2048").
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBProcs\fR
Number of processors on the node (e.g. "2").
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBReason\fR
Identifies the reason for a node being in state "DOWN" or "DRAINED" 
or "DRAINING". Use quotes to enclose a reason having more than one 
word.
.TP
\fBState\fR
State of the node with respect to the initiation of user jobs. 
Acceptable values are "BUSY", "DOWN", "DRAINED", "DRAINING", "IDLE", 
and "UNKNOWN". "BUSY" indicates the node has been allocated work 
and should not be used in the configuration file.
"DOWN" indicates the node failed and is unavailable to be allocated work.
"DRAINED" indicates the node was configured unavailable to be 
allocated work and is presently not performing any work.
"DRAINING" indicates the node is unavailable to be allocated new 
work, but is completing the processing of a job.
"IDLE" indicates the node available to be allocated work, but 
has none at present
"UNKNOWN" indicates the node's state is undefined, but will be 
established when the \fBslurmd\fR daemon on that node registers.
The default value is "UNKNOWN".
.TP
\fBTmpDisk\fR
Total size of temporary disk storage in \fBTmpFS\fR in MegaBytes 
(e.g. "16384"). \fBTmpFS\fR (for "Temporary File System") 
identifies the location which jobs should use for temporary storage. 
Note this does not indicate the amount of free 
space available to the user on the node, only the total file 
system size. The system administration should insure this file 
system is purged as needed so that user jobs have access to 
most of this space. 
The Prolog and/or Epilog programs (specified in the configuration file) 
might be used to insure the file system is kept clean. 
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBWeight\fR
The priority of the node for scheduling purposes. 
All things being equal, jobs will be allocated the nodes with 
the lowest weight which satisfies their requirements. 
For example, a heterogeneous collection of nodes might 
be placed into a single partition for greater system
utilization, responsiveness and capability. It would be 
preferable to allocate smaller memory nodes rather than larger 
memory nodes if either will satisfy a job's requirements. 
The units of weight are arbitrary, but larger weights 
should be assigned to nodes with more processors, memory, 
disk space, higher processor speed, etc.
Weight is an integer value with a default value of 1.
.LP
The partition configuration permits you to establish different job 
limits or access controls for various groups (or partitions) of nodes. 
Nodes may be in only one partition. Jobs are allocated resources 
within a single partition. The partition configuration 
file contains the following information: 
.TP
\fBAllowGroups\fR
Comma separated list of group IDs which may use the partition. 
If at least one group associated with the user submitting the 
job is in AllowGroups, he will be permitted to use this partition.
The default value is "ALL". 
.TP
\fBDefault\fR
If this keyword is set, jobs submitted without a partition 
specification will utilize this partition.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO". 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBRootOnly\fR
Specifies if only user ID zero (or user <i>root</i> may 
initiate jobs in this partition.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO". 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBMaxNodes\fR
Maximum count of nodes which may be allocated to any single job.
The default value is "UNLIMITED", which is represented internally as -1.
.TP
\fBMaxTime\fR
Maximum wall-time limit for any job in minutes. The default 
value is "UNLIMITED", which is represented internally as -1.
.TP
\fBMinNodes\fR
Minimum count of nodes which may be allocated to any single job.
The default value is 1.
.TP
\fBNodes\fR
Comma separated list of nodes which are associated with this 
partition. Node names may be specified using the 
node range expression syntax described above. A blank list of nodes 
(i.e. "Nodes= ") can be used if one wants a partition to exist, 
but have no resources (possibly on a temporary basis).
.TP
\fBPartitionName\fR
Name by which the partition may be referenced (e.g. "Interactive"). 
This name can be specified by users when submitting jobs.
.TP
\fBShared\fR
Ability of the partition to execute more than one job at a 
time on each node. Shared nodes will offer unpredictable performance 
for application programs, but can provide higher system utilization 
and responsiveness than otherwise possible. 
Possible values are "FORCE", "YES", and "NO". 
The default value is "NO".
.TP
\fBState\fR
State of partition or availability for use.  Possible values 
are "UP" or "DOWN". The default value is "UP".
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP 
#
.br
# Sample /etc/slurm.conf for dev[0-25].llnl.gov
.br
# Author: John Doe
.br
# Date: 11/06/2001
.br
#
.br
ControlMachine=dev0 ControlAddr=edev0
.br
BackupController=dev1 BackupAddr=edev1
.br
#
.br
AuthType=auth/authd
.br
Epilog=/usr/local/slurm/epilog 
.br
Prolog=/usr/local/slurm/prolog
.br
FastSchedule=1
.br
FirstJobId=65536
.br
HashBase=10
.br
HeartbeatInterval=60
.br
InactiveLimit=120
.br
KillWait=30
.br
MaxJobCount=10000
.br
MinJobAge=3600
.br
PluginDir=/usr/local/lib:/usr/local/slurm/lib
.br
Prioritize=/usr/local/maui/priority
.br
ReturnToService=0
.br
SlurmctldLogFile=/var/log/slurmctld.log
.br
SlurmdLogFile=/var/log/slurmd.log
.br
SlurmctldDebug=4 SlurmdDebug=3
.br
SlurmctldPort=7002 SlurmdPort=7003
.br
SlurmctldTimeout=300 SlurmdTimeout=300
.br
SlurmdSpoolDir=/usr/local/slurm/slurmd.spool
.br
StateSaveLocation=/usr/local/slurm/slurm.state
.br
TmpFS=/tmp
.br
WaitTime=30
.br
JobCredentialPrivateKey=/usr/local/slurm/private.key
.br
JobCredentialPublicCertificate=/usr/local/slurm/public.cert
.br
#
.br
# Node Configurations
.br
#
.br
NodeName=DEFAULT Procs=2 RealMemory=2000 TmpDisk=64000
.br
NodeName=DEFAULT State=UNKNOWN
.br
NodeName=dev[0-25] NodeAddr=edev[0-25] Weight=16
.br
# Update records for specific DOWN nodes
.br
NodeName=dev20 State=DOWN Reason="power,ETA=Dec25"
.br
#
.br
# Partition Configurations
.br
#
.br
PartitionName=DEFAULT MaxTime=30 MaxNodes=10
.br
PartitionName=debug Nodes=dev[0-8,18-25] State=UP Default=YES
.br
PartitionName=batch Nodes=dev[9-17] State=UP MinNodes=4

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "FILES"
/etc/slurm.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBgethostbyname\fR(3), \fBgroup\fR(5), \fBhostname\fR(1), 
\fBscontrol\fR(1), \fBslurmctld\fR(8), \fBslurmd\fR(8),
\fBsyslog\fR(2)
