.TH MPI_Testsome 3 "1/9/2003" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Testsome \-  Tests for some given communications to complete 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Testsome( 
        int incount, 
        MPI_Request array_of_requests[], 
        int *outcount, 
        int array_of_indices[], 
        MPI_Status array_of_statuses[] )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B incount 
- length of array_of_requests (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_requests 
- array of requests (array of handles) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B outcount 
- number of completed requests (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_indices 
- array of indices of operations that 
completed (array of integers) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B array_of_statuses 
- array of status objects for 
operations that completed (array of Status).  May be 
.I MPI_STATUSES_IGNORE
\&.

.PD 1

.SH NOTE ON STATUS FOR SEND OPERATIONS
For send operations, the only use of status is for MPI_Test_cancelled or
in the case that there is an error, in which case the MPI_ERROR field of
status will be set.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_IN_STATUS 
- The actual error value is in the 
.I MPI_Status
argument.
This error class is returned only from the multiple-completion routines
(
.I MPI_Testall
, 
.I MPI_Testany
, 
.I MPI_Testsome
, 
.I MPI_Waitall
, 
.I MPI_Waitany
,
and 
.I MPI_Waitsome
).  The field 
.I MPI_ERROR
in the status argument
contains the error value or 
.I MPI_SUCCESS
(no error and complete) or
.I MPI_ERR_PENDING
to indicate that the request has not completed.
.PD 1
The MPI Standard does not specify what the result of the multiple
completion routines is when an error occurs.  For example, in an
.I MPI_WAITALL
, does the routine wait for all requests to either fail or
complete, or does it return immediately (with the MPI definition of
immediately, which means independent of actions of other MPI processes)?
MPICH has chosen to make the return immediate (alternately, local in MPI
terms), and to use the error class 
.I MPI_ERR_PENDING
(introduced in MPI 1.1)
to indicate which requests have not completed.  In most cases, only
one request with an error will be detected in each call to an MPI routine
that tests multiple requests.  The requests that have not been processed
(because an error occured in one of the requests) will have their
.I MPI_ERROR
field marked with 
.I MPI_ERR_PENDING
\&.


.SH LOCATION
testsome.c
