.TH MPI_Request_free 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Request_free \-  Frees a communication request object 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Request_free( MPI_Request *request )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B request 
- communication request (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
This routine is normally used to free persistent requests created with
either 
.I MPI_Recv_init
or 
.I MPI_Send_init
and friends.  However, it can be
used to free a request created with 
.I MPI_Irecv
or 
.I MPI_Isend
and friends;
in that case the use can not use the test/wait routines on the request.

It 
.B is
permitted to free an active request.  However, once freed, you can not
use the request in a wait or test routine (e.g., 
.I MPI_Wait
).

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_REQUEST 
- Invalid 
.I MPI_Request
\&.
Either null or, in the case of a
.I MPI_Start
or 
.I MPI_Startall
, not a persistent request.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1

.SH SEE ALSO
also: MPI_Isend, MPI_Irecv, MPI_Issend, MPI_Ibsend, MPI_Irsend,
.br
MPI_Recv_init, MPI_Send_init, MPI_Ssend_init, MPI_Rsend_init, MPI_Wait,
MPI_Test, MPI_Waitall, MPI_Waitany, MPI_Waitsome, MPI_Testall, MPI_Testany,
MPI_Testsome
.SH LOCATION
commreq_free.c
