.TH MPI_Attr_put 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Attr_put \-  Stores attribute value associated with a key 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Attr_put ( MPI_Comm comm, int keyval, void *attr_value )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator to which attribute will be attached (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B keyval 
- key value, as returned by  
.I MPI_KEYVAL_CREATE
(integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B attribute_val 
- attribute value 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES
Values of the permanent attributes 
.I MPI_TAG_UB
, 
.I MPI_HOST
, 
.I MPI_IO
, and
.I MPI_WTIME_IS_GLOBAL
may not be changed.

The type of the attribute value depends on whether C or Fortran is being used.
In C, an attribute value is a pointer (
.I void *
); in Fortran, it is a single
integer (
.B not
a pointer, since Fortran has no pointers and there are systems
for which a pointer does not fit in an integer (e.g., any > 32 bit address
system that uses 64 bits for Fortran 
.I DOUBLE PRECISION
).

If an attribute is already present, the delete function (specified when the
corresponding keyval was created) will be called.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_OTHER 
- Other error; the error code associated with this error 
indicates an attempt to use an invalue keyval.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- This error class is associated with an error code that 
indicates that an attempt was made to free one of the permanent keys.
.PD 1

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Attr_get, MPI_Keyval_create, MPI_Attr_delete
.br
.SH LOCATION
attr_putval.c
