.TH SCONTROL "1" "July 2004" "scontrol 0.3" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
scontrol \- Used view and modify Slurm configuration and state.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBscontrol\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBscontrol\fR is used to view or modify Slurm configuration including: job, 
job step, node, partition, and overall system configuration. Most of the 
commands can only be executed by user root. If an attempt to view or modify 
configuration information is made by an unauthorized user, an error message 
will be printed and the requested action will not occur. If no command is 
entered on the execute line, \fBscontrol\fR will operate in an interactive 
mode and prompt for input. It will continue prompting for input and executing 
commands until explicitly terminated. If a command is entered on the execute 
line, \fBscontrol\fR will execute that command and terminate. All commands 
and options are case-insensitive, although node names and partition names 
are case-sensitive (node names "LX" and "lx" are distinct). Commands can 
be abbreviated to the extent that the specification is unique.

.TP
\fBOPTIONS\fR
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Show all partitiion, their jobs and jobs steps. This causes information to be 
displayed about partitions that are configured as hidden and partitions that
are unavailable to user's group.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of scontrol.
.TP
\fB\-\-hide\fR
Do not display information about hidden partitions, their jobs and job steps. 
By default, neither partitions that are configured as hidden nor those partitions 
unavailable to user's group will be displayed (i.e. this is the default behavior).
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-oneliner\fR
Print information one line per record.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no warning or informational messages, only fatal error messages.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print detailed event logging. This includes time-stamps on data structures, 
record counts, etc.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\fBCOMMANDS\fR
.TP
\fIall\fP
Show all partitiion, their jobs and jobs steps. This causes information to be 
displayed about partitions that are configured as hidden and partitions that
are unavailable to user's group.
.TP
\fIabort\fP
Instruct the Slurm controller to terminate immediately and generate a core file.
.TP
\fIcheckpoint\fP \fICKPT_OP\fP \fIID\fP
Perform a checkpoint activity on the job step(s) with the specified identification.
\fICKPT_OP\fP may be \fIdisable\fP, \fIenable\fP, 
\fIcreate\fP (create a checkpoint and let the job step continue), 
\fIvacate\fP (create a checkpoint and terminate the job step), 
\fIerror\fP (report the reason for the last checkpoint failure), 
or \fIresume\fP (resume execution of the previously checkpointed job steps).
\fIID\fP can be used to identify a specific job (e.g. "<job_id>", implying all of its steps) 
or a specific job step (e.g. "<job_id>.<step_id>").
.TP
\fIcompleting\fP
Display all jobs in a COMPLETING state along with associated nodes in either a 
COMPLETING or DOWN state.
.TP
\fIdelete\fP \fISPECIFICATION\fP
Delete the entry with the specified \fISPECIFICATION\fP.
The only supported \fISPECIFICATION\fP presently is of the form
\fIPartitionName=<name>\fP.
.TP
\fIexit\fP
Terminate the execution of scontrol.
.TP
\fIhelp\fP
Display a description of scontrol options and commands.
.TP
\fIhide\fP
Do not display partitiion, job or jobs step information for partitions that are 
configured as hidden or partitions that are unavailable to the user's group. 
This is the default behavior.
.TP
\fIoneliner\fP
Print information one line per record.
.TP
\fIpidinfo\fP \fIPROC_ID\fP
Print the Slurm job id and scheduled termination time corresponding to the 
supplied process id, \fIPROC_ID\fP, on the current node.
.TP
\fIping\fP
Ping the primary and secondary slurmctld daemon and report if 
they are responding.
.TP
\fIquiet\fP
Print no warning or informational messages, only fatal error messages.
.TP
\fIquit\fP
Terminate the execution of scontrol.
.TP
\fIreconfigure\fP
Instruct all Slurm daemons to re-read the configuration file. 
This command does not restart the daemons.
This mechanism would be used to modify configuration parameters (Epilog, 
Prolog, SlurmctldLogFile, SlurmdLogFile, etc.) register the physical 
addition or removal of nodes from the cluster or recognize the change 
of a node's configuration, such as the addition of memory or processors. 
The Slurm controller (slurmctld) forwards the request all other daemons 
(slurmd daemon on each compute node). Running jobs continue execution.
Most configuration parameters can be changed by just running this command, 
however, SLURM daemons should be shutdown and restarted if any of these 
parameters are to be changed: AuthType, BackupAddr, BackupController, 
ControlAddr, ControlMach, PluginDir, StateSaveLocation, SlurmctldPort 
or SlurmdPort.
.TP
\fIshow\fP \fIENTITY\fP \fIID\fP
Display the state of the specified entity with the specified identification.
\fIENTITY\fP may be \fIconfig\fP, \fIdaemons\fP, \fIjob\fP, \fInode\fP, 
\fIpartition\fP or \fIstep\fP.
\fIID\fP can be used to identify a specific element of the identified 
entity: the configuration parameter name, job ID, node name, partition name, 
or job step ID for entities \fIconfig\fP, \fIjob\fP, \fInode\fP, \fIpartition\fP, 
and \fIstep\fP respectively. 
Multiple node names may be specified using simple node range expressions 
(e.g. "lx[10-20]"). All other \fIID\fP values must identify a single 
element. The job step ID is of the form "job_id.step_id", (e.g. "1234.1").
By default, all elements of the entity type specified are printed.
.TP
\fIshutdown\fP
Instruct all Slurm daemons to save current state and terminate.
The Slurm controller (slurmctld) forwards the request all other daemons 
(slurmd daemon on each compute node). 
.TP
\fIupdate\fP \fISPECIFICATION\fP 
Update job, node or partition configuration per the supplied specification.
\fISPECIFICATION\fP is in the same format as the Slurm configuration file 
and the output of the \fIshow\fP command described above. It may be desirable 
to execute the \fIshow\fP command (described above) on the specific entity 
you which to update, then use cut-and-paste tools to enter updated configuration 
values to the \fIupdate\fP. Note that while most configuration values can be 
changed using this command, not all can be changed using this mechanism. In 
particular, the hardware configuration of a node or the physical addition or 
removal of nodes from the cluster may only be accomplished through editing 
the Slurm configuration file and executing the \fIreconfigure\fP command 
(described above).
.TP
\fIverbose\fP
Print detailed event logging. This includes time-stamps on data structures, 
record counts, etc.
.TP
\fIversion\fP
Display the version number of scontrol being executed.
.TP
\fI!!\fP
Repeat the last command executed.
.TP
\fBSPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE COMMAND, JOBS\fR
.TP
\fIContiguous\fP=<yes|no>
Set the job's requirement for contiguous (consecutive) nodes to be allocated. 
Possible values are"YES" and "NO".
.TP
\fIFeatures\fP=<features>
Set the job's required features on nodes specified value. Multiple values 
may be comma separated if all features are required (AND operation) or 
separated by "|" if any of the specified features are required (OR operation).
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "Features=".
.TP
\fIJobId\fP=<id>
Identify the job to be updated. This specification is required.
.TP
\fIMinMemory\fP=<megabytes>
Set the job's minimum real memory required per nodes to the specified value.
.TP
\fIMinProcs\fP=<count>
Set the job's minimum number of processors per nodes to the specified value.
.TP
\fIMinTmpDisk\fP=<megabytes>
Set the job's minimum temporary disk space required per nodes to the specified value.
.TP
\fIName\fP=<name>
Set the job's name to the specified value.
.TP
\fIPartition\fP=<name>
Set the job's partition to the specified value.
.TP
\fIPriority\fP=<minutes>
Set the job's priority to the specified value.
.TP
\fIReqNodeList\fP=<nodes>
Set the job's list of required node. Multiple node names may be specified using 
simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10-20]"). 
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "ReqNodeList=".
.TP
\fIReqNodes\fP=<count>
Set the job's count of required nodes to the specified value.
.TP
\fIReqProcs\fP=<count>
Set the job's count of required processors to the specified value.
.TP
\fIShared\fP=<yes|no>
Set the job's ability to share nodes with other jobs. Possible values are
"YES" and "NO".
.TP
\fITimeLimit\fP=<minutes>
Set the job's time limit to the specified value.
.TP
\fBSPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE COMMAND, NODES\fR
.TP
\fINodeName\fP=<name>
Identify the node(s) to be updated. Multiple node names may be specified using 
simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10-20]"). This specification is required.
.TP
\fIReason\fP=<reason>
Identify the reason the node is in a "DOWN" or "DRAINED" or "DRAINING" state.
Use quotes to enclose a reason having more than one word.
.TP
\fIState\fP=<state>
Identify the state to be assigned to the node. Possible values are  "NoResp", 
"DOWN", "IDLE", "DRAIN", "DRAINED", "DRAINING", and "ALLOCATED". 
To drain a node specify "DRAIN", "DRAINED", or "DRAINING".
SLURM will automatically set it to the appropriate value of either 
"DRAINING" or "DRAINED" depending if the node is allocated or not.
The "NoResp" state will only set the "NoResp" flag for a node without
changing its underlying state.
.TP
\fBSPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE AND DELETE COMMANDS, PARTITIONS\fR
.TP
\fIAllowGroups\fP=<name>
Identify the user groups which may use this partition. 
Multiple groups may be specified in a comma separated list.
To permit all groups to use the partition specify "AllowGroups=ALL" 
.TP
\fIDefault\fP=<yes|no>
Specify if this partition is to be used by jobs which do not explicitly 
identify a partition to use. Possible values are"YES" and "NO".
.TP
\fIHidden\fP=<yes|no>
Specify if the partition and its jobs should be hidden from view. 
Hidden partitions will by default not be reported by SLURM APIs 
or commands. 
Possible values are"YES" and "NO".
.TP
\fINodes\fP=<name>
Identify the node(s) to be associated with this partition. Multiple node names 
may be specified using simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10-20]"). 
Note that jobs may only be associated with one partition at any time.
Specify a blank data value to remove all nodes from a partition: "Nodes=".
.TP
\fIPartitionName\fP=<name>
Identify the partition to be updated. This specification is required.
.TP
\fIRootOnly\fP=<yes|no>
Specify if only allocation requests initiated by user root will be satisfied. 
This can be used to restrict control of the partition to some meta-scheduler. 
Possible values are"YES" and "NO".
.TP
\fIShared\fP=<yes|no|force>
Specify if nodes in this partition can be shared by multiple jobs. 
Possible values are"YES", "NO" and "FORCE".
.TP
\fIState\fP=<up|down>
Specify if jobs can be allocated nodes in this partition. 
Possible values are"UP" and "DOWN".
If a partition allocated nodes to running jobs, those jobs will continue 
execution even after the partition's state is set to "DOWN". The jobs 
must be explicitly canceled to force their termination.
.TP
\fIMaxNodes\fP=<count>
Set the maximum number of nodes which will be allocated to any single job 
in the partition. Specify a number or "INFINITE".
.TP
\fIMinNodes\fP=<count>
Set the minimum number of nodes which will be allocated to any single job 
in the partition. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES" 
.PP 
Some \fBscontrol\fR options may
be set via environment variables. These environment variables,
along with their corresponding options, are listed below. (Note:
Commandline options will always override these settings.)
.TP 20
SCONTROL_ALL
\fB\-a, \-\-all\fR
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.eo
.br 
# scontrol
.br 
scontrol: show part class
.br 
PartitionName=class TotalNodes=10 TotalCPUs=20 RootOnly=NO
.br 
   Default=NO Shared=NO State=UP MaxTime=30 Hidden=NO
.br
   MinNodes=1 MaxNodes=2 AllowGroups=students
.br
   Nodes=lx[0031-0040] NodeIndecies=31,40,-1
.br 
scontrol: update PartitionName=class MaxTime=99 MaxNodes=4
.br 
scontrol: show job 65539
.br 
JobId=65539 UserId=1500 JobState=PENDING TimeLimit=100
.br 
   Priority=100 Partition=batch Name=job01 NodeList=(null) 
.br 
   StartTime=0 EndTime=0 Shared=0 ReqProcs=1000
.br
   ReqNodes=400 Contiguous=1 MinProcs=4 MinMemory=1024
.br 
   MinTmpDisk=2034ReqNodeList=lx[3000-3003] 
.br
   Features=(null) JobScript=/bin/hostname 
.br 
scontrol: update JobId=65539 TimeLimit=200 Priority=500
.br 
scontrol: quit
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
/etc/slurm.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBscancel\fR(1), \fBsinfo\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1), 
\fBslurm_checkpoint\fR(3),
\fBslurm_delete_partition\fR(3),
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_reconfigure\fR(3), \fBslurm_shutdown\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_update_job\fR(3), \fBslurm_update_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_update_partition\fR(3),
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
