.TH SSHARE "1" "November 2008" "sshare 2.0" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sshare \- Tool for listing the shares of associations to a cluster.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsshare\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsshare\fR is used to view Slurm share information.  This command is
only viable when running with the priority/multifactor plugin.
The sshare information is derived from a database with the interface 
being provided by \fBslurmdbd\fR (Slurm Database daemon) which is
read in from the slurmctld and used to process the shares available
to a given association.  sshare provides Slurm share information of
Account, User, Raw Shares, Normalized Shares, Raw Usage, Normalized
Usage, and Effective Usage.


.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
List all information.

.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-accounts\fR
List accounts information.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBsshare\fR.
This is equivalent to the \fBusage\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no_header\fR
No header will be added to the beginning of the output.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-parsable\fR
Output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parsable2\fR
Output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no messages other than error messages.
This is equivalent to the \fBquiet\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR \fB\-\-user\fR
This is equivalent to the \fBuser\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
Set time format.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable detailed logging. 
This is equivalent to the \fBverbose\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number.
This is equivalent to the \fBversion\fR command.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.TP
\fB\-\-all\fR
Display associations.

.TP
\fB\-\-accounts\fR <\fIAccount\fR> 
Display accounts.

.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP
Display a description of sshare options and commands.

.TP
\fB\-\-no_header\fP
Display output without the header.

.TP
\fB\-\-parsable\fP
Display output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-\-parsable2\fP
Display output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fP
Print no messages other than error messages.

.TP
\fB\-\-uid\fP <\fIUser\fR>
Display user.

.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fP
Display a description of sshare options and commands.

.TP
\fB\-\-user\fP <\fIUser\fR> 
Display user.

.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fP
Wordy and windy output. 


.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
Display the version number of sshare.


.SH " ACCOUNTS "

.TP
\fIAccount\fP
The name of a bank account.

.RE

.SH " USER "

.TP
\fIUser\fP
The name of a user.

.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
.br
> sshare -A <Account>
.br
.br
> sshare --parsable --user <User>
.br

.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
\fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
