.TH SACCTMGR "1" "April 2009" "sacctmgr 2.0" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
sacctmgr \- Used to view and modify Slurm account information.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsacctmgr\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsacctmgr\fR is used to view or modify Slurm account information.
The account information is maintained within a database with the interface 
being provided by \fBslurmdbd\fR (Slurm Database daemon).
This database can serve as a central storehouse of user and 
computer information for multiple computers at a single site.
Slurm account information is recorded based upon four parameters
that form what is referred to as an \fIassociation\fR. 
These parameters are \fIuser\fR, \fIcluster\fR, \fIpartition\fR, and 
\fIaccount\fR. \fIuser\fR is the login name.
\fIcluster\fR is the name of a Slurm managed cluster as specified by 
the \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR configuration file. 
\fIpartition\fR is the name of a Slurm partition on that cluster.
\fIaccount\fR is the bank account for a job.
The intended mode of operation is to initiate the \fBsacctmgr\fR command, 
add, delete, modify, and/or list \fIassociation\fR records then 
commit the changes and exit.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBssacctmgr\fR.
This is equivalent to the \fBhelp\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-immediate\fR
commit changes immediately.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-noheader\fR
No header will be added to the beginning of the output.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-oneliner\fR
Report output one record per line.
This is equivalent to the \fBoneliner\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-parsable\fR
Output will be '|' delimited with a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parsable2\fR
Output will be '|' delimited without a '|' at the end.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no messages other than error messages.
This is equivalent to the \fBquiet\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-readonly\fR
Makes it so the running sacctmgr can not modify accounting information.
This is equivalent to the \fBreadonly\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-associations\fR
Use with show or list to display associations with the entity.
This is equivalent to the \fBassociations\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable detailed logging. 
This is equivalent to the \fBverbose\fR command.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version number.
This is equivalent to the \fBversion\fR command.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.TP
\fBadd\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> <\fISPECS\fR>
Add an entity.
Identical to the \fBcreate\fR command.

.TP
\fBassociations\fR
Use with show or list to display associations with the entity.

.TP
\fBcreate\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> <\fISPECS\fR>
Add an entity.
Identical to the \fBadd\fR command.

.TP
\fBdelete\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> with <\fISPECS\fR>
Delete the specified entities.

.TP
\fBdump\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> with <\fIFile=FILENAME\fR>
Dump cluster data to the specified file.

.TP
\fBexit\fP
Terminate sacctmgr.
Identical to the \fBquit\fR command.

.TP
\fBhelp\fP
Display a description of sacctmgr options and commands.

.TP
\fBlist\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> [<\fISPECS\fR>]
Display information about the specified entity.
By default, all entries are displayed, you can narrow results by
specifing SPECS in your query.
Identical to the \fBshow\fR command.

.TP
\fBload\fR <\fIFILENAME\fR>
Load cluster data to the specified file.

.TP
\fBmodify\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> \fbwith\fR <\fISPECS\fR> \fbset\fR <\fISPECS\fR>
Modify an entity.

.TP
\fBoneliner\fP
Output one record per line.

.TP
\fBquiet\fP
Print no messages other than error messages.

.TP
\fBquit\fP
Terminate the execution of sacctmgr.
Identical to the \fBexit\fR command.

.TP
\fBshow\fR <\fIENTITY\fR> [<\fISPECS\fR>]
Display information about the specified entity.
By default, all entries are displayed, you can narrow results by
specifing SPECS in your query.
Identical to the \fBlist\fR command.

.TP
\fBverbose\fP
Enable detailed logging. 
This includes time\-stamps on data structures, record counts, etc.
This is an independent command with no options meant for use in interactive mode.

.TP
\fBversion\fP
Display the version number of sacctmgr.

.TP
\fB!!\fP
Repeat the last command.

.SH "ENTITIES"

.TP
\fIaccount\fP
A bank account, typically specified at job submit time using the 
\fI\-\-account=\fR option.
These may be arranged in a hierarchical fashion, for example
accounts \fIchemistry\fR and \fIphysics\fR may be children of
the account \fIscience\fR. 
The hierarchy may have an arbitrary depth.

.TP
\fIassociation\fP
The entity used to group information consisting of four parameters:
\fIaccount\fR, \fIcluster\fR, \fIpartition (optional)\fR, and \fIuser\fR.

.TP
\fIcluster\fP
The \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR configuration
file, used to differentiate accounts from on different machines. 

.TP
\fIconfiguration\fP
Used only with the \fIlist\fR or \fIshow\fR command to report current
system configuration. 

.TP
\fIcoordinator\fR
A special privileged user usually an account manager or such that can
add users or sub accounts to the account they are coordinator over.
This should be a trusted person since they can change limits on
account and user associations inside their realm.
 
.TP
\fIqos\fR
Quality of Service (For use with MOAB only).

.TP
\fItransaction\fR
List of transactions that have occurred during a given time period.

.TP
\fIuser\fR
The login name.

.TP
\fIwckeys\fR
Workload  Characterization  Key. An arbitrary  string  for  grouping orthogonal accounts.

.SH "GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ASSOCIATION BASED ENTITIES"

.TP
\fIFairshare\fP=<fairshare>
Number used in conjunction with other accounts to determine job priority.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIGrpCPUMins\fP=<max cpu minutes> 
Maximum number of CPU minutes running jobs are able to be allocated in 
aggregate for this association and all association which are children
of this association.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new
value of \-1.  (NOTE: This limit is not enforced if set on the root
association of a cluster.  So even though it may appear in sacctmgr
output it will not be enforced.)

.TP
\fIGrpCPUs\fP=<max cpus>
Maximum number of CPUs running jobs are able to be allocated in aggregate for 
this association and all association which are children of this association.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new
value of \-1.  (NOTE: This limit is not currently enforced in SLURM.
You can still set this, but have to wait for future versions of SLURM
before it is enforced.)

.TP
\fIGrpJobs\fP=<max jobs>
Maximum number of running jobs in aggregate for 
this association and all association which are children of this association.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIGrpNodes\fP=<max nodes>
Maximum number of nodes running jobs are able to be allocated in aggregate for 
this association and all association which are children of this association.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIGrpSubmitJobs\fP=<max jobs>
Maximum number of jobs which can be in a pending or running state at any time 
in aggregate for this association and all association which are children of 
this association.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIGrpWall\fP=<max wall>
Maximum wall clock time running jobs are able to be allocated in aggregate for 
this association and all association which are children of this association.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.
(NOTE: This limit is not enforced if set on the root
association of a cluster.  So even though it may appear in sacctmgr
output it will not be enforced.)

.TP
\fIMaxCPUMins\fP=<max cpu minutes> 
Maximum number of CPU minutes each job is able to use in this account.
This is overridden if set directly on a user. 
Default is the cluster's limit.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new
value of \-1. 

.TP
\fIMaxCPUs\fP=<max cpus>
Maximum number of CPUs each job is able to use in this account.
This is overridden if set directly on a user. 
Default is the cluster's limit.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new
value of \-1.  (NOTE: This limit is not currently enforced in SLURM.
You can still set this, but have to wait for future versions of SLURM
before it is enforced.)

.TP
\fIMaxJobs\fP=<max jobs>
Maximum number of jobs each user is allowed to run at one time in this account.
This is overridden if set directly on a user. 
Default is the cluster's limit.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIMaxNodes\fP=<max nodes>
Maximum number of nodes each job is able to use in this account.
This is overridden if set directly on a user. 
Default is the cluster's limit.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.
This is a c\-node limit on BlueGene systems.

.TP
\fIMaxSubmitJobs\fP=<max jobs>
Maximum number of jobs which can this account can have in a pending or running
state at any time.
Default is the cluster's limit.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIMaxWall\fP=<max wall>
Maximum wall clock time each job is able to use in this account.
This is overridden if set directly on a user. 
Default is the cluster's limit.
<max wall> format is <min> or <min>:<sec> or <hr>:<min>:<sec> or 
<days>\-<hr>:<min>:<sec> or <days>\-<hr>.
The value is recorded in minutes with rounding as needed.
To clear a previously set value use the modify command with a new value of \-1.

.TP
\fIQosLevel\fP<operator><comma separated list of qos names>
(For use with MOAB only.)
Specify the default Quality of Service's that jobs are able to run at
for this account.  To get a list of valid QOS's use 'sacctmgr list qos'. 
This value will override it's parents value and push down to it's
children as the new default.  Setting a QosLevel to '' (two single
quotes with nothing between them) restores it's default setting.  You
can also use the operator += and \-= to add or remove certain QOS's
from a QOS list.

Valid <operator> values include:
.RS
.TP 5
\fB=\fR
Set \fIQosLevel\fP to the specified value.
.TP
\fB+=\fR
Add the specified <qos> value to the current \fIQosLevel\fP .
.TP
\fB\-=\fR
Remove the specified <qos> value from the current \fIQosLevel\fP.
.RE

.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR ACCOUNTS"

.TP
\fICluster\fP=<cluster>
Specific cluster to add account to.  Default is all in system.

.TP
\fIDescription\fP=<description>
An arbitrary string describing an account.

.TP
\fIName\fP=<name>
The name of a bank account.

.TP
\fIOrganization\fP=<org>
Organization to which the account belongs.

.TP
\fIParent\fP=<parent>
Parent account of this account. Default is the root account, a top
level account.

.SH ""
NOTE: If using the WithAssoc option you can also query against
association specific information to view only certain associations
this account may have.  These extra options can be found in the
\fISPECIFICATIONS FOR ASSOCIATIONS\fP section.  You can also use the
general specifications list above in the \fIGENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR
ASSOCIATION BASED ENTITIES\fP section.

.SH "LIST/SHOW ACCOUNTS FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fIAccount\fP
The name of a bank account.

.TP
\fIDescription\fP
An arbitrary string describing an account.

.TP
\fIOrganization\fP
Organization to which the account belongs.

.TP
\fICoordinators\fP
List of users that are a coordinator of the account. (Only filled in
when using the WithCoordinator option.)

.SH ""
NOTE: If using the WithAssoc option you can also view the information
about the various associations the account may have on all the
clusters in the system.  The Association format fields are described
in the \fILIST/SHOW ASSOCIATION FORMAT OPTIONS\fP section.
.RE


.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR ASSOCIATIONS"

.TP
\fICluster\fP=<comma separated list of cluster names>
List the associations of the cluster(s).

.TP
\fIAccount\fP=<comma separated list of account names>
List the associations of the account(s).

.TP
\fIUser\fP=<comma separated list of user names>
List the associations of the user(s).

.TP
\fIPartition\fP=<comma separated list of partition names>
List the associations of the partition(s).

.SH ""
NOTE: You can also use the general specifications list above in the
\fIGENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ASSOCIATION BASED ENTITIES\fP section.

\fBOther options unique for listing associations:\fP

.TP
\fITree\fP
Display account names in a hierarchical fashion.

.TP
\fIWithDeleted\fP
Display information with previously deleted data.

.TP
\fIWithSubAccounts\fP
Display information with subaccounts.  Only really valuable when used
with the account= option.  This will display all the subaccount
associations along with the accounts listed in the option.
              
.TP
\fIWOPInfo\fP
Display information without parent information. (i.e. parent id, and
parent account name.) This option also invokes WOPLIMITS.
              
.TP
\fIWOPLimits\fP
Display information without hierarchical parent limits. (i.e. will
only display limits where they are set instead of propagating them
from the parent.)

.RE


.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR CLUSTERS"

.TP
\fIName\fP=<name>
The name of a cluster.
This should be equal to the \fIClusterName\fR parameter in the \fIslurm.conf\fR 
configuration file for some Slurm\-managed cluster. 

.SH ""
NOTE: You can also use the general specifications list above in the
\fIGENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR ASSOCIATION BASED ENTITIES\fP section.

.RE

.SH "LIST/SHOW CLUSTER FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fICluster\fP
The name of the cluster.

.TP
\fIControl Host\fP
When a slurmctld registers with the database the ip address of the
controller is placed here.

.TP
\fIControl Port\fP
When a slurmctld registers with the database the port the controller
is listening on is placed here.

.TP
\fICPU Count\fP
The current count of cpus on the cluster.

.TP
\fINodeNames\fP
The current Nodes associated with the cluster.

.TP
\fINodeCount\fP
The current count of nodes associated with the cluster.

.TP
\fIRPC\fP
When a slurmctld registers with the database the rpc version the controller
is running is placed here.

.SH ""
NOTE: You can also view the information about the root association for
the cluster.  The Association format fields are described
in the \fILIST/SHOW ASSOCIATION FORMAT OPTIONS\fP section.
.RE


.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR COORDINATOR"
.TP
\fIAccounts\fP=<comma separated list of account names>
Account name to add this user as a coordinator to.
.TP
\fINames\fP=<comma separated list of user names>
Names of coordinators.

.SH ""
NOTE: To list coordinators use the WithCoordinator options with list
account or list user.
.RE


.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR QOS"
.TP
\fIDescription\fP=<description>
An arbitrary string describing an account.
.TP
\fINames\fP=<qos>
Names of qos.
.RE


.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRANSACTIONS"

.TP
\fIAccounts\fP=<comma separated list of account names>
Only print out the transactions affecting specified accounts.

.TP
\fIAction\fP=<Specific action the list will display>

.TP
\fIActor\fP=<Specific name the list will display>

.TP
\fIClusters\fP=<comma separated list of cluster names>
Only print out the transactions affecting specified clusters.

.TP
\fIEndTime\fP=<Date and time where list should end>

.TP
\fIStartTime\fP=<Date and time where list should begin>

.TP
\fIUsers\fP=<comma separated list of user names>
Only print out the transactions affecting specified users.

.TP
\fIWithAssoc\fP
Get information about which associations were affected by the transactions.
.RE

.SH "LIST/SHOW TRANSACTIONS FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fIAction\fP

.TP
\fIActor\fP

.TP
\fIInfo\fP

.TP
\fITimeStamp\fP

.TP
\fIWhere\fP

.SH ""
NOTE: If using the WithAssoc option you can also view the information
about the various associations the transaction effected.  The
Association format fields are described 
in the \fILIST/SHOW ASSOCIATION FORMAT OPTIONS\fP section.
.RE

.SH "SPECIFICATIONS FOR USERS"

.TP
\fIAccount\fP=<account>
Account name to add this user to.

.TP
\fIAdminLevel\fP=<level>
Admin level of user.  Valid levels are None, Operator, and Admin.

.TP
\fICluster\fP=<cluster>
Specific cluster to add user to the account on.  Default is all in system.

.TP
\fIDefaultAccount\fP=<account>
Identify the default bank account name to be used for a job if none is 
specified at submission time.

.TP
\fIDefaultWCKey\fP=<defaultwckey>
Identify the default Workload Characterization Key.

.TP
\fIName\fP=<name>
Name of user.

.TP
\fIPartition\fP=<name>
Partition name.

.TP
\fIWCKeys\fP=<wckeys>
Workload Characterization Key values.

.SH ""
NOTE: If using the WithAssoc option you can also query against
association specific information to view only certain associations
this account may have.  These extra options can be found in the
\fISPECIFICATIONS FOR ASSOCIATIONS\fP section.  You can also use the
general specifications list above in the \fIGENERAL SPECIFICATIONS FOR
ASSOCIATION BASED ENTITIES\fP section.
.RE

.SH "LIST/SHOW USER FORMAT OPTIONS"

.TP
\fIAdminLevel\fP
Admin level of user. 

.TP
\fIDefaultAccount\fP
An the users default account.

.TP
\fICoordinators\fP
List of users that are a coordinator of the account. (Only filled in
when using the WithCoordinator option.)

.TP
\fIUser\fP
The name of a user.

.SH ""
NOTE: If using the WithAssoc option you can also view the information
about the various associations the user may have on all the
clusters in the system.  The Association format fields are described
in the \fILIST/SHOW ASSOCIATION FORMAT OPTIONS\fP section.
.RE

.SH "LIST/SHOW WCKey"

.TP
\fIWCKey\fP
Workload Characterization Key. 

.TP
\fICluster\fP
Specific cluster for the WCKey.

.TP
\fIUser\fP
The name of a user for the WCKey.

.SH ""
NOTE: If using the WithAssoc option you can also view the information
about the various associations the user may have on all the
clusters in the system.  The Association format fields are described
in the \fILIST/SHOW ASSOCIATION FORMAT OPTIONS\fP section.
.RE

.SH "FLAT FILE DUMP AND LOAD"
sacctmgr has the capability to load and dump SLURM association data to and
from a file.  This method can easily add a new cluster or copy an
existing clusters associations into a new cluster with similar
accounts. Each file contains SLURM association data for a single
cluster.  Comments can be put into the file with the # character.
Each line of information must begin with one of the four titles; \fBCluster, Parent, Account or
User\fP. Following the title is a space, dash, space, entity value,
then specifications. Specifications are colon separated.  If any
variable such as Organization has a space in it surround the name with
single or double quotes.

To create a file of associations one can run

> sacctmgr dump tux file=tux.cfg
.br
(file=tux.cfg is optional)

To load a previously created file you can run

> sacctmgr load file=tux.cfg

Other options for load are \-

clean \- delete what was already there and start from scratch with this
information.
.br
Cluster= \- specify a different name for the cluster than that which is
in the file.

Quick explanation how the file works.

Since the associations in the system follow a hierarchy so does the
file.  Any thing that is a parent needs to be defined before any
children.  The only exception is the understood 'root' account.  This
is always a default for any cluster and does not need to be defined.

To edit/create a file start with a cluster line for the new cluster

\fBCluster\ \-\ cluster_name:MaxNodesPerJob=15\fP

Anything included on this line will be the defaults for all
associations on this cluster.  These options are as follows...
.TP
\fIGrpCPUMins=\fP
Maximum number of CPU hours running jobs are able to
be allocated in aggregate for this association and all association
which are children of this association. (NOTE: This limit is not
currently enforced in SLURM. You can still set this, but have to wait
for future versions of SLURM before it is enforced.)
.TP
\fIGrpCPUs=\fP
Maximum number of CPUs running jobs are able to be
allocated in aggregate for this association and all association which
are children of this association. (NOTE: This limit is not currently
enforced in SLURM. You can still set this, but have to wait for future
versions of SLURM before it is enforced.)
.TP
\fIGrpJobs=\fP
Maximum number of running jobs in aggregate for this
association and all association which are children of this association.
.TP
\fIGrpNodes=\fP
Maximum number of nodes running jobs are able to be
allocated in aggregate for this association and all association which
are children of this association.
.TP
\fIGrpSubmitJobs=\fP
Maximum number of jobs which can be in a pending or
running state at any time in aggregate for this association and all
association which are children of this association. 
.TP
\fIGrpWall=\fP
Maximum wall clock time running jobs are able to be
allocated in aggregate for this association and all association which
are children of this association. 
.TP
\fIFairShare=\fP
To be used with a scheduler like MOAB to determine priority.
.TP
\fIMaxJobs=\fP
Maximum number of jobs the children of this account can run.
.TP
\fIMaxNodesPerJob=\fP
Maximum number of nodes per job the children of this account can run.
.TP
\fIMaxProcSecondsPerJob=\fP
Maximum cpu seconds children of this accounts jobs can run.
.TP
\fIMaxWallDurationPerJob=\fP
Maximum time (not related to job size) children of this accounts jobs can run.
.TP
\fIQOS=\fP
Comma separated list of Quality of Service names (Defined in sacctmgr).
.TP

Followed by Accounts you want in this fashion...

.na
\fBParent\ \-\ root\fP (Defined by default)
.br
\fBAccount\ \-\ cs\fP:MaxNodesPerJob=5:MaxJobs=4:MaxProcSecondsPerJob=20:FairShare=399:MaxWallDurationPerJob=40:Description='Computer Science':Organization='LC'
.br
\fBParent\ \-\ cs\fP
.br
\fBAccount\ \-\ test\fP:MaxNodesPerJob=1:MaxJobs=1:MaxProcSecondsPerJob=1:FairShare=1:MaxWallDurationPerJob=1:Description='Test Account':Organization='Test'
.ad

.TP
Any of the options after a ':' can be left out and they can be in any order.
If you want to add any sub accounts just list the Parent THAT HAS ALREADY 
BEEN CREATED before the account line in this fashion...
.TP
All account options are
.TP
\fIDescription=\fP
A brief description of the account.
.TP
\fIGrpCPUMins=\fP
Maximum number of CPU hours running jobs are able to
be allocated in aggregate for this association and all association
which are children of this association. (NOTE: This limit is not
currently enforced in SLURM. You can still set this, but have to wait
for future versions of SLURM before it is enforced.)
.TP
\fIGrpCPUs=\fP
Maximum number of CPUs running jobs are able to be
allocated in aggregate for this association and all association which
are children of this association. (NOTE: This limit is not currently
enforced in SLURM. You can still set this, but have to wait for future
versions of SLURM before it is enforced.)
.TP
\fIGrpJobs=\fP
Maximum number of running jobs in aggregate for this
association and all association which are children of this association.
.TP
\fIGrpNodes=\fP
Maximum number of nodes running jobs are able to be
allocated in aggregate for this association and all association which
are children of this association.
.TP
\fIGrpSubmitJobs=\fP
Maximum number of jobs which can be in a pending or
running state at any time in aggregate for this association and all
association which are children of this association. 
.TP
\fIGrpWall=\fP
Maximum wall clock time running jobs are able to be
allocated in aggregate for this association and all association which
are children of this association. 
.TP
\fIFairShare=\fP
To be used with a scheduler like MOAB to determine priority.
.TP
\fIMaxJobs=\fP
Maximum number of jobs the children of this account can run.
.TP
\fIMaxNodesPerJob=\fP
Maximum number of nodes per job the children of this account can run.
.TP
\fIMaxProcSecondsPerJob=\fP
Maximum cpu seconds children of this accounts jobs can run.
.TP
\fIMaxWallDurationPerJob=\fP
Maximum time (not related to job size) children of this accounts jobs can run.
.TP
\fIOrganization= 
Name of organization that owns this account.
.TP
\fI\fIQOS(=,+=,\-=)\fP
Comma separated list of Quality of Service names (Defined in sacctmgr).
.TP

.TP
To add users to a account add a line like this after a Parent \- line
\fBParent\ \-\ test\fP
.br
.na
\fBUser\ \-\ adam\fP:MaxNodesPerJob=2:MaxJobs=3:MaxProcSecondsPerJob=4:FairShare=1:MaxWallDurationPerJob=1:AdminLevel=Operator:Coordinator='test'
.ad

.TP
All user options are
.TP
\fIAdminLevel=\fP
Type of admin this user is (Administrator, Operator)
.br
\fBMust be defined on the first occurrence of the user.\fP
.TP
\fICoordinator=\fP
Comma separated list of accounts this user is coordinator over
.br
\fBMust be defined on the first occurrence of the user.\fP
.TP
\fIDefaultAccount=\fP
system wide default account name
.br
\fBMust be defined on the first occurrence of the user.\fP
.TP
\fIFairShare=\fP
To be used with a scheduler like MOAB to determine priority.
.TP
\fIMaxJobs=\fP
Maximum number of jobs this user can run.
.TP
\fIMaxNodesPerJob=\fP
Maximum number of nodes per job this user can run.
.TP
\fIMaxProcSecondsPerJob=\fP
Maximum cpu seconds this user can run per job.
.TP
\fIMaxWallDurationPerJob=\fP
Maximum time (not related to job size) this user can run.
.TP
\fIQOS(=,+=,\-=)\fP
Comma separated list of Quality of Service names (Defined in sacctmgr).
.RE

.SH "ARCHIVE FUNCTIONALITY"
Sacctmgr has the capability to archive to a flatfile and or load that
data if needed later.  The archiving is usually done by the slurmdbd
and it is highly recommended you only do it through sacctmgr if you
completely understand what you are doing.  For slurmdbd options see
"man slurmdbd" for more information. 
Loading data into the database can be done from these files to either
view old data or regenerate rolled up data. 

These are the options for both dump and load of archive information.

archive dump

.TP
\fIDirectory=\fP
Directory to store the archive data.
.TP
\fIEvents\fP
Archive Events.  If not specified and PurgeEventMonths is set
all event data removed will be lost permanently.
.TP
\fIJobs\fP
Archive Jobs.  If not specified and PurgeJobMonths is set
all job data removed will be lost permanently.
.TP
\fIPurgeEventMonths=\fP
Purge cluster event records older than time stated in months.
.TP
\fIPurgeJobMonths=\fP
Purge job records older than time stated in months.
.TP
\fIPurgeStepMonths=\fP
Purge step records older than time stated in months.
.TP
\fIPurgeSuspendMonths=\fP
Purge job suspend records older than time stated in months.
.TP
\fIScript=\fP
Run this script instead of the generic form of archive to flat files.
.TP
\fISteps\fP
Archive Steps.  If not specified and PurgeStepMonths is set
all step data removed will be lost permanently.
.TP
\fISuspend\fP
Archive Suspend Data.  If not specified and PurgeSuspendMonths is set
all suspend data removed will be lost permanently.
.RE    
                                                                       
archive load
.TP
\fIFile=\fP
File to load into database.
.TP
\fIInsert=\fP 
SQL to insert directly into the database.  This should be used very
cautiously since this is writing your sql into the database.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
.br
> sacctmgr create cluster tux
.br
> sacctmgr create account name=science fairshare=50
.br
> sacctmgr create account name=chemistry parent=science fairshare=30
.br
> sacctmgr create account name=physics parent=science fairshare=20
.br
> sacctmgr create user name=adam cluster=tux account=physics fairshare=10
.br
> sacctmgr modify user where name=adam cluster=tux account=physics set
  maxjobs=2 maxwall=30:00
.br
> sacctmgr list associations cluster=tux format=Account,Cluster,User,Fairshare tree withd
.br
> sacctmgr list transactions StartTime=11/03\-10:30:00 format=Timestamp,Action,Actor
.br
> sacctmgr dump cluster=tux file=tux_data_file
.br
> sacctmgr load tux_data_file
.br

.br
When modifying an object placing the key words 'set' and the
optional 'where' is critical to perform correctly below are examples to
produce correct results.  As a rule of thumb any thing you put in front
of the set will be used as a quantifier.  If you want to put a
quantifier after the key word 'set' you should use the key
word 'where'.
.br

.br
wrong> sacctmgr modify user name=adam set fairshare=10 cluster=tux
.br

.br
This will produce an error as the above line reads modify user adam
set fairshare=10 and cluster=tux.  
.br

.br
right> sacctmgr modify user name=adam cluster=tux set fairshare=10
.br
right> sacctmgr modify user name=adam set fairshare=10 where cluster=tux 
.br

.br
(For use with MOAB only)
When changing qos for something only use the '=' operator when wanting
to explicitly set the qos to something.  In most cases you will want
to use the '+=' or '\-=' operator to either add to or remove from the
existing qos already in place.
.br

.br
If a user already has qos of normal,standby for a parent or it was
explicitly set you should use qos+=expedite to add this to the list in
this fashion.
.br

.br
> sacctmgr modify user name=adam set qos+=expedite
.br

.br
If you are looking to only add the qos expedite to only a certain
account and or cluster you can do that by specifing them in the
sacctmgr line.
.br

.br
> sacctmgr modify user name=adam acct=this cluster=tux set qos+=expedite
.br
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008\-2009 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
CODE\-OCEC\-09\-009. All rights reserved.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://computing.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
\fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
