.TH MPI_Scatterv 3 "2/21/2002" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Scatterv \-  Scatters a buffer in parts to all tasks in a group 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Scatterv ( 
        void *sendbuf, 
        int *sendcnts, 
        int *displs, 
        MPI_Datatype sendtype, 
        void *recvbuf, 
        int recvcnt,  
        MPI_Datatype recvtype, 
        int root, 
        MPI_Comm comm )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B sendbuf 
- address of send buffer (choice, significant only at 
.I root
) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B sendcounts 
- integer array (of length group size) 
specifying the number of elements to send to each processor  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B displs 
- integer array (of length group size). Entry 
.I i
specifies the displacement (relative to sendbuf  from
which to take the outgoing data to process  
.I i

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B sendtype 
- data type of send buffer elements (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B recvcount 
- number of elements in receive buffer (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B recvtype 
- data type of receive buffer elements (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B root 
- rank of sending process (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B recvbuf 
- address of receive buffer (choice) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COUNT 
- Invalid count argument.  Count arguments must be 
non-negative; a count of zero is often valid.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_TYPE 
- Invalid datatype argument.  May be an uncommitted 
MPI_Datatype (see 
.I MPI_Type_commit
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_BUFFER 
- Invalid buffer pointer.  Usually a null buffer where
one is not valid.
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
scatterv.c
