.TH MPI_Group_incl 3 "11/14/2001" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Group_incl \-  Produces a group by reordering an existing group and taking only listed members 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Group_incl ( MPI_Group group, int n, int *ranks, MPI_Group *group_out )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B group 
- group (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B n 
- number of elements in array 
.I ranks
(and size of newgroup ) (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B ranks 
- ranks of processes in 
.I group
to appear in 
.I newgroup
(array of 
integers) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B newgroup 
- new group derived from above, in the order defined by 
.I ranks

(handle) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTE
This implementation does not currently check to see that the list of
ranks to ensure that there are no duplicates.

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_GROUP 
- Null group passed to function.  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_INTERN 
- This error is returned when some part of the MPICH 
implementation is unable to acquire memory.  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_RANK 
- Invalid source or destination rank.  Ranks must be between
zero and the size of the communicator minus one; ranks in a receive
(
.I MPI_Recv
, 
.I MPI_Irecv
, 
.I MPI_Sendrecv
, etc.) may also be 
.I MPI_ANY_SOURCE
\&.

.PD 1

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Group_free
.br
.SH LOCATION
group_incl.c
