.TH MPI_Keyval_free 3 "6/12/2002" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Keyval_free \-  Frees attribute key for communicator cache attribute 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Keyval_free ( int *keyval )
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B keyval 
- Frees the integer key value (integer) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTE
Key values are global (they can be used with any and all communicators)

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- This error class is associated with an error code that 
indicates that an attempt was made to free one of the permanent keys.
.PD 1

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Keyval_create
.br
.SH LOCATION
keyval_free.c
