.TH MPI_Cart_map 3 "3/28/2002" " " "MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Cart_map \-  Maps process to Cartesian topology information  
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include "mpi.h"
int MPI_Cart_map ( 
        MPI_Comm comm_old,
        int ndims,
        int *dims,
        int *periods,
        int *newrank)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- input communicator (handle) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B ndims 
- number of dimensions of Cartesian structure (integer) 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B dims 
- integer array of size 
.I ndims
specifying the number of processes in 
each coordinate direction 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B periods 
- logical array of size 
.I ndims
specifying the periodicity 
specification in each coordinate direction 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B newrank 
- reordered rank of the calling process; 
.I MPI_UNDEFINED
if 
calling process does not belong to grid (integer) 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN
All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
) have
an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.  
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of the routine
in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are invoked with the
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type 
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH ERRORS

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPI error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPI job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
; the predefined error handler
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.
Note that MPI does 
.B not
guarentee that an MPI program can continue past
an error.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a null
communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_DIMS 
- Illegal dimension argument.  A dimension argument
is null or its length is less than or equal to zero.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class (e.g., 
.I MPI_ERR_RANK
).
.PD 1
.SH LOCATION
cart_map.c
