.TH "cray.conf" "5" "Slurm Configuration File" "April 2015" "Slurm Configuration File"

.SH "NAME"
cray.conf \- Slurm configuration file for the Cray\-specific information

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBcray.conf\fP is an ASCII file which defines parameters used by 
Slurm's select/cray plugin in support of Cray systems.
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter or at execution time by setting the SLURM_CONF
environment variable. The file will always be located in the
same directory as the \fBslurm.conf\fP file.
The default configuration parameters will work properly in a typical
installation and this file will not be required.
.LP
Parameter names are case insensitive.
Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated
as a comment through the end of that line.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of
SLURM daemons, daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal, or execution
of the command "scontrol reconfigure" unless otherwise noted.
.LP
The configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBAlpsEngine\fR=<engine_version>
Communication protocol version number to be used between Slurm and ALPS/BASIL.
The default value is BASIL's response to the ENGINE query.
Use with caution: Changes in ALPS communications which are not recognized
by Slurm could result in loss of jobs.
Currently supported values include
1.1, 1.2.0, 1.3.0, 3.1.0, 4.0, 4.1.0, 4.2.0, 5.0, 5.1, 5.2 or "latest".
A value of "latest" will use the most current version of Slurm's logic and
can be useful for validation with new versions of ALPS.

.TP
\fBAlpsDir\fR=<pathname>
Fully qualified pathname of the directory in which ALPS is installed.
The default value is \fI/usr\fR.

.TP
\fBapbasil\fR=<pathname>
Fully qualified pathname to the apbasil command.
The default value is \fI/usr/bin/apbasil\fR.

.TP
\fBapbasilTimeout\fR=<seconds>
How many seconds to wait for the apbasil command to complete before killing it.
By default, wait indefinitely

.TP
\fBapkill\fR=<pathname>
Fully qualified pathname to the apkill command.
The default value is \fI/usr/bin/apkill\fR.

.TP
\fBSDBdb\fR=<dbname>
Name of the ALPS database.
The default value is \fIXTAdmin\fR.

.TP
\fBSDBhost\fR=<dbname>
Hostname of the database server.
The default value is \fIsdb\fR.

.TP
\fBSDBpass\fR=<password>
Password used to access the ALPS database.
The default value is NULL, which will load the password from the \fImy.cnf\fR file.

.TP
\fBSDBport\fR=<port_number>
Port used to access the ALPS database.
The default value is 0.

.TP
\fBSDBuser\fR=<user_name>
Name of user used to access the ALPS database.
The default value is NULL, which will load the user name from the \fImy.cnf\fR file.

.TP
\fBSubAllocate\fR=Yes
Only allocate requested node resources instead of the whole node.  In both
cases the user will be charged for the entire node.

.TP
\fBSyncTimeout\fR=<seconds>
SLURM does not normally schedule jobs while its job or node state information
is out of synchronization with that of ALPS. This parameter specifies a maximum
time to defer job scheduling while waiting for consistent state.  The
inconsistent state might be caused by a variety of hardware or software
failures and proceeding could result in more failures. The default value is
3600 (one hour). A value of zero will wait indefinitely for consistent state.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
.br
###
.br
# Slurm Cray support configuration file
.br
###
.br
apbasil=/opt/alps_simulator_40_r6768/apbasil.sh
.br
SDBhost=localhost
.br
SDBuser=alps_user
.br
SDBdb=XT5istanbul

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 SchedMD LLC.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
