.TH "ext_sensors.conf" "5" "Slurm Configuration File" "April 2015" "Slurm Configuration File"

.SH "NAME"
ext_sensors.conf \- Slurm configuration file for the external sensors plugin

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBext_sensors.conf\fP is an ASCII file which defines parameters used by
Slurm's external sensors plugins.
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter or at execution time by setting the SLURM_CONF
environment variable. The file will always be located in the
same directory as the \fBslurm.conf\fP file.
.LP
Parameter names are case insensitive.
Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated
as a comment through the end of that line.
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of
SLURM daemons, daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal, or execution
of the command "scontrol reconfigure" unless otherwise noted.

.LP
The following ext_sensors.conf parameters are defined to control data
collection by the ext_sensors plugins. All of these parameters are optional.
If a parameter is omitted, data collection of the omitted type is disabled.

.TP
\fBJobData\fR=\fBenergy\fR
Specify the data types to be collected by the plugin for jobs/steps.

.TP
\fBNodeData\fR=\fB[energy|temp][,temp|energy]\fR
Specify the data types to be collected by the plugin for nodes.

.TP
\fBSwitchData\fR=\fBenergy\fR
Specify the data types to be collected by the plugin for switches.

.TP
\fBColdDoorData\fR=\fBtemp\fR
Specify the data types to be collected by the plugin for cold doors.

.TP
\fBMinWatt\fR=\fB<number>\fR
Minimum recorded power consumption, in watts.

.TP
\fBMaxWatt\fR=\fB<number>\fR
Maximum recorded power consumption, in watts.

.TP
\fBMinTemp\fR=\fB<number>\fR
Minimum recorded temperature, in celsius.

.TP
\fBMaxTemp\fR=\fB<number>\fR
Maximum recorded temperature, in celsius.

.TP
\fBEnergyRRA\fR=\fB<name>\fR
Energy RRA name.

.TP
\fBTempRRA\fR=\fB<name>\fR
Temperature RRA name.

.TP
\fBEnergyPathRRD\fR=\fB<path>\fR
Pathname of energy RRD file.

.TP
\fBTempPathRRD\fR=\fB<patch>\fR
Pathname of temperature RRD file.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
.br
###
.br
# Slurm external sensors plugin configuration file
.br
###
.br
JobData=energy
.br
NodeData=energy,temp
.br
SwitchData=energy
.br
ColdDoorData=temp
.br
#

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2013 Bull
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
