.TH "ipmi.conf" "5" "November 2012" "ipmi.conf 1.0" "Slurm ipmi configuration file"

.SH "NAME"
ipmi.conf \- Slurm configuration file for the ipmi plugin

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBipmi.conf\fP is an ASCII file which defines parameters used by
Slurm's ipmi related plugins.
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter or at execution time by setting the SLURM_CONF
environment variable. The file will always be located in the
same directory as the \fBslurm.conf\fP file.
.LP
Parameter names are case insensitive.
Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated
as a comment through the end of that line.
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of
SLURM daemons, daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal, or execution
of the command "scontrol reconfigure" unless otherwise noted.

.LP
The following ipmi.conf parameters are defined to control the general behavior
of Slurm ipmi plugins.

.TP
\fBFrequency\fR=<number>
This parameter is the number of seconds between BMC access samples.

.TP
\fBCalcAdjustment\fR=<yes|no>
If set to "yes", the consumption between the last BMC access sample and
a step consumption update is approximated to get more accurate task consumption.
The adjustment is made at the step start and each time the consumption
is updated, including the step end. The approximations are not cumulated, only
the first and last adjustments are used to calculated the consumption.
The default is "no".

.TP
\fBPowerSensor\fR=<number>
This parameter is optional. The plugin will not search all available sensors to
find the power sensor, but will just check the sensor is in Watt.

.LP
The following ipmi.conf parameters are defined to control the
IPMI config default values for libipmiconsole.

.TP
\fBUsername\fR=\fIUSERNAME\fR
Specify BMC Username.

.TP
\fBPassword\fR=\fIPASSWORD\fR
Specify BMC Password.

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
.br
###
.br
# Slurm ipmi configuration file
.br
###
.br
Frequency=10
.br
CalcAdjustment=yes
.br
#

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Bull.
Produced at Bull (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.schedmd.com/slurmdocs/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
