.TH "nrt.conf" "5" "January 2012" "nrt.conf 2.4" "SLURM configuration file"

.SH "NAME"
nrt.conf \- Slurm configuration file for the IBM Network Resource Table (NRT) specific information

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBnrt.conf\fP is an ASCII file which defines parameters used by 
SLURM's switch/nrt plugin in support of IBM systems in which the Network
Resource Table (NRT) Application Programming Interface (API) is used to
manage its network.
The file location can be modified at system build time using the
DEFAULT_SLURM_CONF parameter or at execution time by setting the SLURM_CONF
environment variable. The file will always be located in the
same directory as the \fBslurm.conf\fP file.
.LP
Parameter names are case insensitive.
Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated
as a comment through the end of that line.
The size of each line in the file is limited to 1024 characters.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of
SLURM daemons.
.LP
The configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBAdapterName\fR=<switch_name>
Name of switch adapter(s). This can use the same name format as the SLURM
hostname expression (numeric values or ranges in square brackets). For example,
"sni0", "sni[0-1]", "sni[0,1]" or "sni[0-1,2]".

.TP
\fBAdapterType\fR=<type>
The adapter type. Valid values include:
.RS
.TP 12
\fBIB\fR
InfiniBand switch type
.TP
\fBHPCE\fR
HPCE switch type
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
.br
###
.br
# SLURM Network Resource Table (NRT) configuration file
.br
###
.br
AdapterName=sni[0-1]
.br
AdapterType=IB

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2012 SchedMD LLC.
Produced at SchedMD LLC (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.schedmd.com/slurmdocs/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5)
