.TH "slurmdbd.conf" "5" "Slurm Configuration File" "April 2022" "Slurm Configuration File"

.SH "NAME"
slurmdbd.conf \- Slurm Database Daemon (SlurmDBD) configuration file

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmdbd.conf\fP is an ASCII file which describes Slurm Database
Daemon (SlurmDBD) configuration information.
The file will always be located in the same directory as the \fBslurm.conf\fR.
.LP
The contents of the file are case insensitive except for the names of nodes
and files. Any text following a "#" in the configuration file is treated
as a comment through the end of that line.
Changes to the configuration file take effect upon restart of
SlurmDBD or daemon receipt of the SIGHUP signal unless otherwise noted.
.LP
This file should be only on the computer where SlurmDBD executes and
should only be readable by the user which executes SlurmDBD (e.g. "slurm").
If the slurmdbd daemon is started as user root and changes to another
user ID, the configuration file will initially be read as user root, but will
be read as the other user ID in response to a SIGHUP signal.
This file should be protected from unauthorized access since it
contains a database password.
The overall configuration parameters available include:

.TP
\fBAllowNoDefAcct\fR
Remove requirement for users to have a default account.  Boolean, yes to turn
on, no (default) to enforce default accounts.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveDir\fR
If ArchiveScript is not set the slurmdbd will generate a file that can be
read in anytime with sacctmgr load filename.  This directory is where the
file will be placed after a purge event has happened and archive for that
element is set to true.  Default is /tmp.  The format for this files name is
.na
$ArchiveDir/$ClusterName_$ArchiveObject_archive_$BeginTimeStamp_$endTimeStamp
.ad
We limit archive files to 50000 records per file. If more than 50000 records
exist during that time period, they will be written to a new file.  Subsequent
archive files during the same time period will have ".<number>" appended
to the file, for example .2, with the number increasing by one for each file in
the same time period.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveEvents\fR
When purging events also archive them.  Boolean, yes to archive event data,
no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveJobs\fR
When purging jobs also archive them.  Boolean, yes to archive job data,
no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveResvs\fR
When purging reservations also archive them.  Boolean, yes to archive
reservation data, no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveScript\fR
This script can be executed every time a rollup happens (every hour,
day and month), depending on the Purge*After options.  This script is used
to transfer accounting records out of the database into an archive.  It is
used in place of the internal process used to archive objects.
The script is executed with no arguments, and the following environment
variables are set.
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_EVENTS\fR
1 for archive events 0 otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_EVENT\fR
Time of last event start to archive.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_JOBS\fR
1 for archive jobs 0 otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_JOB\fR
Time of last job submit to archive.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_STEPS\fR
1 for archive steps 0 otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_STEP\fR
Time of last step start to archive.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_SUSPEND\fR
1 for archive suspend data 0 otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_TXN\fR
1 for archive transaction data 0 otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_USAGE\fR
1 for archive usage data 0 otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_ARCHIVE_LAST_SUSPEND\fR
Time of last suspend start to archive.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveSteps\fR
When purging steps also archive them.  Boolean, yes to archive step data,
no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveSuspend\fR
When purging suspend data also archive it.  Boolean, yes to archive
suspend data, no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveTXN\fR
When purging transaction data also archive it.  Boolean, yes to archive
transaction data, no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBArchiveUsage\fR
When purging usage data (Cluster, Association and WCKey) also archive it.
Boolean, yes to archive transaction data, no otherwise.  Default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBAuthInfo\fR
Additional information to be used for authentication of communications
with the Slurm control daemon (slurmctld) on each cluster.
The interpretation of this option is specific to the configured \fBAuthType\fR.
In the case of \fIauth/munge\fR, this can be configured to use a Munge daemon
specifically configured to provide authentication between clusters while the
default Munge daemon provides authentication within a cluster.
In that case, this will specify the pathname of the socket to use. Per default
this value is left unspecified, which results in the default authentication
mechanism being used.
.IP

.TP
\fBAuthAltTypes\fR
Command separated list of alternative authentication plugins that the slurmdbd
will permit for communication.
.IP

.TP
\fBAuthAltParameters\fR
Used to define alternative authentication plugins options. Multiple options may
be comma separated.
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBjwks=\fR
Absolute path to JWKS file. Only RS256 keys are supported, although other
key types may be listed in the file. If set, no HS256 key will be loaded by
default (and token generation is disabled), although the jwt_key setting may
be used to explicitly re\-enable HS256 key use (and token generation).
.IP

.TP
\fBjwt_key=\fR
Absolute path to JWT key file. Key must be HS256, and should only be accessible
by SlurmUser.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBAuthType\fR
Define the authentication method for communications between Slurm
components.
Acceptable values at present include "auth/munge", which is the default.
"auth/munge" indicates that LLNL's MUNGE system is to be used
(this is the supported authentication mechanism for Slurm;
see "https://dun.github.io/munge/" for more information).
SlurmDBD must be terminated prior to changing the value of \fBAuthType\fR
and later restarted.
.IP

.TP
\fBCommitDelay\fR
How many seconds between commits on a connection from a Slurmctld.  This
speeds up inserts into the database dramatically.  If you are running a very
high throughput of jobs you should consider setting this.  In testing, 1 second
improves the slurmdbd performance dramatically and reduces overhead.  There is
a small probability of data loss though since this creates a window in which
if the slurmdbd seg faults or exits abnormally for any reason the data not
committed could be lost.  While this situation should be very rare,
it does present an extremely small risk, but may be the only way to run in
extremely heavy environments.  In all honesty, the risk is quite low, but still
present.
.IP

.TP
\fBCommunicationParameters\fR
Comma separated options identifying communication options.
.IP
.RS
.TP 15
\fBDisableIPv4\fR
Disable IPv4 only operation for the slurmdbd. This should also be set in your
\fBslurm.conf\fR file.
.IP

.TP
\fBEnableIPv6\fR
Enable using IPv6 addresses for the slurmdbd. When using both IPv4 and IPv6,
address family preferences will be based on your /etc/gai.conf file. This
should also be set in your \fBslurm.conf\fR file.
.IP

.TP
\fBkeepaliveinterval=#\fR
Specifies the interval between keepalive probes on the socket communications
between the backup and primary slurmdbd.
The default value is 30 seconds.
.IP

.TP
\fBkeepaliveprobes=#\fR
Specifies the number of keepalive probes sent on the socket communications
between the backup and primary slurmdbd.
The default value is 3.
.IP

.TP
\fBkeepalivetime=#\fR
Specifies how long to wait before sending keepalive probes between the primary
and backup slurmdbd processes.
The default value is 30 seconds.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBDbdBackupHost\fR
The short, or long, name of the machine where the backup Slurm Database Daemon
is executed (i.e. the name returned by the command "hostname \-s").
This host must have access to the same underlying database specified by
the 'Storage' options mentioned below.
.IP

.TP
\fBDbdAddr\fR
Name that \fBDbdHost\fR should be referred to in establishing a communications
path. This name will be used as an argument to the getaddrinfo() function for
identification. For example, "elx0000" might be used to designate the Ethernet
address for node "lx0000".  By default the \fBDbdAddr\fR will be identical in
value to \fBDbdHost\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBDbdHost\fR
The short, or long, name of the machine where the Slurm Database Daemon is
executed (i.e. the name returned by the command "hostname \-s").
This value must be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBDbdPort\fR
The port number that the Slurm Database Daemon (slurmdbd) listens
to for work. The default value is SLURMDBD_PORT as established at system
build time. If no value is explicitly specified, it will be set to 6819.
This value must be equal to the \fBAccountingStoragePort\fR parameter in the
slurm.conf file.
.IP

.TP
\fBDebugFlags\fR
Defines specific subsystems which should provide more detailed event logging.
Multiple subsystems can be specified with comma separators.
Most DebugFlags will result in verbose logging for the identified subsystems
and could impact performance.
Valid subsystems available today (with more to come) include:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBDB_ARCHIVE\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with archiving and purging the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_ASSOC\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with associations in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_EVENT\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with (node) events in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_JOB\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with jobs in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_QOS\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with QOS in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_QUERY\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with transactions and such in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_RESERVATION\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with reservations in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_RESOURCE\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with resources like licenses in the
database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_STEP\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with steps in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_TRES\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with trackable resources in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_USAGE\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with usage queries and inserts
in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBDB_WCKEY\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with wckeys in the database.
.IP

.TP
\fBFEDERATION\fR
SQL statements/queries when dealing with federations in the database.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBDebugLevel\fR
The level of detail to provide the Slurm Database Daemon's logs.
The default value is \fBinfo\fR.
.IP
.RS
.TP 10
\fBquiet\fR
Log nothing
.IP

.TP
\fBfatal\fR
Log only fatal errors
.IP

.TP
\fBerror\fR
Log only errors
.IP

.TP
\fBinfo\fR
Log errors and general informational messages
.IP

.TP
\fBverbose\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug2\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and more debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug3\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and even more debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug4\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and even more debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug5\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and even more debugging messages
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBDebugLevelSyslog\fR
The slurmdbd daemon will log events to the syslog file at the specified
level of detail. If not set, the slurmdbd daemon will log to syslog at
level \fBfatal\fR, unless there is no \fBLogFile\fR and it is running
in the background, in which case it will log to syslog at the level specified
by \fBDebugLevel\fR (at \fBfatal\fR in the case that \fBDebugLevel\fR
is set to \fBquiet\fR) or it is run in the foreground, when it will be set to
quiet.
.IP
.RS
.TP 10
\fBquiet\fR
Log nothing
.IP

.TP
\fBfatal\fR
Log only fatal errors
.IP

.TP
\fBerror\fR
Log only errors
.IP

.TP
\fBinfo\fR
Log errors and general informational messages
.IP

.TP
\fBverbose\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug2\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and more debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug3\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and even more debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug4\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and even more debugging messages
.IP

.TP
\fBdebug5\fR
Log errors and verbose informational messages and even more debugging messages
.RE
.IP
\fBNOTE\fR: By default, Slurm's systemd service files start daemons in the
foreground with the -D option. This means that systemd will capture
stdout/stderr output and print that to syslog, independent of Slurm printing to
syslog directly. To prevent systemd from doing this, add "StandardOutput=null"
and "StandardError=null" to the respective service files or override files.
.IP

.TP
\fBDefaultQOS\fR
When adding a new cluster this will be used as the qos for the cluster
unless something is explicitly set by the admin with the create.
.IP

.TP
\fBLogFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the Slurm Database Daemon's
logs are written.
The default value is none (performs logging via syslog).
.br
See the section \fBLOGGING\fR in the slurm.conf man page
if a pathname is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBLogTimeFormat\fR
Format of the timestamp in slurmdbd log files. Accepted values are
"iso8601", "iso8601_ms", "rfc5424", "rfc5424_ms", "clock", and
"short". The values ending in "_ms" differ from the ones without in
that fractional seconds with millisecond precision are printed. The
default value is "iso8601_ms". The "rfc5424" formats are the same as
the "iso8601" formats except that the timezone value is also
shown. The "clock" format shows a timestamp in microseconds retrieved
with the C standard clock() function. The "short" format is a short
date and time format. The "thread_id" format shows the timestamp
in the C standard ctime() function form without the year but
including the microseconds, the daemon's process ID and the current thread ID.
.IP

.TP
\fBMaxQueryTimeRange\fR
Return an error if a query is against too large of a time span, to prevent
ill\-formed queries from causing performance problems within SlurmDBD.
Default value is INFINITE which allows any queries to proceed.
Accepted time formats are the same as the MaxTime option in slurm.conf.
Operator and higher privileged users are exempt from this restriction.
Note that queries which attempt to return over 3GB of data will still
fail to complete with ESLURM_RESULT_TOO_LARGE.
.IP

.TP
\fBMessageTimeout\fR
Time permitted for a round\-trip communication to complete
in seconds. Default value is 10 seconds.
.IP

.TP
\fBParameters\fR
Contains arbitrary comma separated parameters used to alter the behavior of
the slurmdbd.
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBPreserveCaseUser\fR
When defining users do not force lower case which is the default behavior.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBPidFile\fR
Fully qualified pathname of a file into which the Slurm Database Daemon
may write its process ID. This may be used for automated signal processing.
The default value is "/var/run/slurmdbd.pid".
.IP

.TP
\fBPluginDir\fR
Identifies the places in which to look for Slurm plugins.
This is a colon\-separated list of directories, like the PATH
environment variable.
The default value is the prefix given at configure time + "/lib/slurm".
.IP

.TP
\fBPrivateData\fR
This controls what type of information is hidden from regular users.
By default, all information is visible to all users.
User \fBSlurmUser\fR, \fBroot\fR, and users with AdminLevel=Admin can always
view all information.
Multiple values may be specified with a comma separator.
Acceptable values include:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBaccounts\fR
prevents users from viewing any account definitions unless they are
coordinators of them.
.IP

.TP
\fBevents\fR
prevents users from viewing event information unless they have operator status
or above.
.IP

.TP
\fBjobs\fR
prevents users from viewing job records belonging
to other users unless they are coordinators of the account running the job
when using sacct.
.IP

.TP
\fBreservations\fR
restricts getting reservation information to users with operator status
and above.
.IP

.TP
\fBusage\fR
prevents users from viewing usage of any other user.
This applies to sreport.
.IP

.TP
\fBusers\fR
prevents users from viewing information of any user
other than themselves, this also makes it so users can only see
associations they deal with.
Coordinators can see associations of all users in the account they are
coordinator of, but can only see themselves when listing users.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeEventAfter\fR
Events happening on the cluster over this age are purged from the database.
This includes node down times and such.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then event records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeJobAfter\fR
Individual job records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved to "PurgeUsageAfter".
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then job records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeResvAfter\fR
Individual reservation records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved to "PurgeUsageAfter".
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then reservation records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeStepAfter\fR
Individual job step records over this age are purged from the database.
Aggregated information will be preserved to "PurgeUsageAfter".
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then job step records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeSuspendAfter\fR
Records of individual suspend times for jobs over this age are purged from the
database.
Aggregated information will be preserved to "PurgeUsageAfter".
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then suspend records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeTXNAfter\fR
Records of individual transaction times for transactions over this age are purged from the database.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then transaction records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBPurgeUsageAfter\fR
Usage Records (Cluster, Association and WCKey) over this age are purged from the
database.
The time is a numeric value and is a number of months.  If you want to purge
more often you can include "hours", or "days" behind the numeric value to get
those more frequent purges (i.e. a value of "12hours" would purge
everything older than 12 hours).
The purge takes place at the start of the each purge interval.
For example, if the purge time is 2 months, the purge would happen at the
beginning of each month.
If not set (default), then usage records are never purged.
.IP

.TP
\fBSlurmUser\fR
The name of the user that the \fBslurmdbd\fR daemon executes as.
This user should match the SlurmUser used for all instances of slurmctld that
report to slurmdbd. It must exist on the machine executing the Slurm Database
Daemon and have the same UID as the hosts on which \fBslurmctld\fR executes.
For security purposes, a user other than "root" is recommended.
The default value is "root".

\fBNOTE\fR: If the SlurmUser defined for \fBslurmctld\fR is not root and is
different than the SlurmUser defined for \fBslurmdbd\fR, the user used for
\fBslurmctld\fR must be added to accounting with AdminLevel=Admin and
\fBslurmctld\fR must be restarted.
.IP

.TP
\fBStorageHost\fR
Define the name of the host the database is running where we are going
to store the data.
Ideally this should be the host on which slurmdbd executes.
.IP

.TP
\fBStorageBackupHost\fR
Define the name of the backup host the database is running where we are going
to store the data.  This can be viewed as a backup solution when the
StorageHost is not responding.  It is up to the backup solution to enforce the
coherency of the accounting information between the two hosts. With clustered
database solutions (active/passive HA), you would not need to use this feature.
Default is none.
.IP

.TP
\fBStorageLoc\fR
Specify the name of the database as the location where accounting
records are written. Defaults to "slurm_acct_db".
.IP

.TP
\fBStorageParameters\fR
Comma separated list of key\-value pair parameters. Currently
supported values include options to establish a secure connection to the
database:
.IP
.RS
.TP 2
\fBSSL_CERT\fR
The path name of the client public key certificate file.
.IP

.TP
\fBSSL_CA\fR
The path name of the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate file.
.IP

.TP
\fBSSL_CAPATH\fR
The path name of the directory that contains trusted SSL CA certificate files.
.IP

.TP
\fBSSL_KEY\fR
The path name of the client private key file.
.IP

.TP
\fBSSL_CIPHER\fR
The list of permissible ciphers for SSL encryption.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBStoragePass\fR
Define the password used to gain access to the database to store
the job accounting data. The '#' character is not permitted in a password.
.IP

.TP
\fBStoragePort\fR
The port number that the Slurm Database Daemon (slurmdbd) communicates
with the database. Default is 3306.
.IP

.TP
\fBStorageType\fR
Define the accounting storage mechanism type.
Acceptable values at present include "accounting_storage/mysql".
The value "accounting_storage/mysql" indicates that accounting records
should be written to a MySQL or MariaDB database specified by the
\fBStorageLoc\fR parameter.
This value must be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBStorageUser\fR
Define the name of the user we are going to connect to the database
with to store the job accounting data.
.IP

.TP
\fBTCPTimeout\fR
Time permitted for TCP connection to be established. Default value is 2 seconds.
.IP

.TP
\fBTrackSlurmctldDown\fR
Boolean yes or no.  If set the slurmdbd will mark all idle resources on the
cluster as down when a slurmctld disconnects or is no longer reachable.  The
default is no.
.IP

.TP
\fBTrackWCKey\fR
Boolean yes or no.  Used to set display and track of the Workload
Characterization Key. Must be set to track wckey usage.  This must be set to
generate rolled up usage tables from WCKeys.
NOTE: If TrackWCKey is set here and not in your various slurm.conf files all
jobs will be attributed to their default WCKey.
.IP

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
#
# Sample /etc/slurmdbd.conf
#
ArchiveEvents=yes
ArchiveJobs=yes
ArchiveResvs=yes
ArchiveSteps=no
ArchiveSuspend=no
ArchiveTXN=no
ArchiveUsage=no
#ArchiveScript=/usr/sbin/slurm.dbd.archive
AuthInfo=/var/run/munge/munge.socket.2
AuthType=auth/munge
DbdHost=db_host
DebugLevel=info
PurgeEventAfter=1month
PurgeJobAfter=12month
PurgeResvAfter=1month
PurgeStepAfter=1month
PurgeSuspendAfter=1month
PurgeTXNAfter=12month
PurgeUsageAfter=24month
LogFile=/var/log/slurmdbd.log
PidFile=/var/run/slurmdbd.pid
SlurmUser=slurm_mgr
StoragePass=password_to_database
StorageType=accounting_storage/mysql
StorageUser=database_mgr
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2008\-2010 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.br
Copyright (C) 2010\-2022 SchedMD LLC.
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/slurmdbd.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5),
\fBslurmctld\fR(8), \fBslurmdbd\fR(8)
\fBsyslog\fR (2)
