.TH "topology.yaml" "5" "Slurm Configuration File" "Slurm 26.05" "Slurm Configuration File"

.SH "NAME"
topology.yaml \-  Slurm configuration file for the topology plugins

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.LP
\fBtopology.yaml\fR is a YAML\-formatted configuration file that defines
multiple network topologies for optimizing job resource allocation in Slurm.
The file must be located in the same directory as \fBslurm.conf\fR. Any text
following a "#" in this file is treated as a comment through the end of that
line.

Additional details are available in \fBtopology.conf\fR(5) and in the
Topology Guide: <https://slurm.schedmd.com/topology.html>

\fBNOTE\fR: Slurm will first check for topology.yaml.
If this file exists, topology.conf will be ignored.
.LP

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
Each topology contains the following attributes:
.LP

.TP
\fBtopology\fR
Unique name of the topology, will be used to identify it on partition
configurations. Must be the first attribute.
.IP

.TP
\fBcluster_default\fR
The first topology defined with \fBcluster_default: true\fR will be used for
partitions without an explicitly specified topology and cluster-wide operations
not tied to a partition (e.g., slurmctld-to-slurmd communication). Defaults to
\fBfalse\fR.
.IP

.LP
Each topology must also define exactly one of the following topology types:
.RS
.TP
\fBblock\fR
This topology will use the \fBtopology/block\fR plugin. Must contain additional
fields, see below.
.IP

.TP
\fBflat\fR
If set to \fBtrue\fR, this topology will use the \fBtopology/flat\fR plugin,
which is the default if no TopologyPlugin or topology.yaml is specified.
May also be set to a dictionary of options, see "Flat definitions" below.
.IP

.TP
\fBring\fR
This topology will use the \fBtopology/ring\fR plugin. Must contain additional
fields, see below.
.IP

.TP
\fBtorus3d\fR
This topology will use the \fBtopology/torus3d\fR plugin. Must contain
additional fields, see below.
.IP

.TP
\fBtree\fR
This topology will use the \fBtopology/tree\fR plugin. Must contain additional
fields, see below.
.IP
.RE

.SS "Block definitions"
.LP
Each block topology contains the following attributes:
.LP

.TP
\fBblock_sizes\fR
List of the planning base block size, alongside any
higher-level block sizes that would be enforced.
Successive \fBBlockSizes\fR must be a power of two larger than the prior values.
.IP

.TP
\fBblocks\fR
List of blocks available in this topology. Each block contains the following
attributes:

.RS
.TP
\fBblock\fR
The name of a block. This name is internal to Slurm and arbitrary.
Each block should have a unique name.
This field must be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBnodes\fR
Child nodes of the named block.
.IP
.RE
.IP

.SS "Tree definitions"
.LP
Each tree topology contains the following attribute:
.LP

.TP
\fBswitches\fR
List of switches available in this topology. Each switch contains the following
attributes:

.RS
.TP
\fBswitch\fR
The name of a switch. This name is internal to Slurm and arbitrary.
Each switch should have a unique name.
This field must be specified and cannot be longer than 64 characters.
.IP

.TP
\fBchildren\fR
Child switches of the named switch.
.IP

.TP
\fBnodes\fR
Child nodes of the named leaf switch.
.IP

.RE
.IP

.SS "Ring definitions"
.LP
Each ring topology contains the following attribute:
.LP

.TP
\fBrings\fR
List of rings available in this topology. Each ring contains the following
attributes:

.RS
.TP
\fBring\fR
The name of a ring. This name is internal to Slurm and arbitrary.
Each ring should have a unique name.
This field must be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBnodes\fR
Ordered list of child nodes in the ring.
A maximum of 16 nodes can be specified per ring.
.IP
.RE
.IP

.SS "Torus3d definitions"
.LP
Each torus3d topology contains the following attribute:
.LP

.TP
\fBtoruses\fR
List of 3D torus definitions. Each torus contains the following attributes:

.RS
.TP
\fBname\fR
The name of the torus. This name is internal to Slurm and arbitrary.
Each torus should have a unique name.
This field must be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBdims\fR
The dimensions of the torus as an object with \fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, and \fBz\fR
fields (each a positive integer). The product x*y*z defines the total number
of coordinate cells in the torus.
.IP

.TP
\fBnodes\fR
Child nodes of the torus. Nodes are mapped to coordinates in x\-major order
(x varies fastest). Mutually exclusive with \fBregions\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBregions\fR
List of regions within the torus that map subsets of coordinates to nodes.
Mutually exclusive with \fBnodes\fR.
Each region contains the following attributes:

.RS
.TP
\fBanchor\fR
Starting coordinate of the region as an object with \fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, and
\fBz\fR fields.
.IP

.TP
\fBdims\fR
Size of the region as an object with \fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, and \fBz\fR fields.
The region covers coordinates from \fBanchor\fR to
\fBanchor\fR + \fBdims\fR \- 1. The region must fit within the torus
dimensions (no wrap\-around).
.IP

.TP
\fBnodes\fR
Nodes to place in the region, mapped in x\-major order within the region's
coordinate range.
.IP
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBplacements\fR
List of allowed placement shapes for this torus. Jobs requesting a number of
nodes matching a placement size will be allocated as a contiguous sub\-cube.
Jobs that don't match a placement size will not receive an allocation.
Each placement contains the following attributes:

.RS
.TP
\fBdims\fR
Dimensions of the placement shape as an object with \fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, and
\fBz\fR fields. The product x*y*z defines the placement size (number of nodes).
.IP

.TP
\fBanchor_seed\fR
Optional starting coordinate offset for the anchor grid as an object with
\fBx\fR, \fBy\fR, and \fBz\fR fields. Shifts the entire anchor grid by the
given offset. Defaults to {0, 0, 0}.
.IP

.TP
\fBanchor_spacing\fR
Optional spacing between placement anchors as an object with \fBx\fR, \fBy\fR,
and \fBz\fR fields. Controls how anchor positions are generated across the
torus. Defaults to the placement \fBdims\fR if not specified.
.IP
.RE
.IP
.RE

.SS "Flat definitions"
.LP
Each flat topology may contain the following attribute:
.LP

.TP
\fBalpha_step_rank\fR
If set to \fBtrue\fR, sort the job's allocated nodes alphabetically by name
when picking step nodes and laying out tasks. By default the order follows
the internal node table index, which for dynamically registered nodes
reflects registration order rather than name order.
.IP

.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
---
- topology: topo1
  cluster_default: true
  tree:
    switches:
      - switch: sw_root
        children: s[1-2]
      - switch: s1
        nodes: node[01-02]
      - switch: s2
        nodes: node[03-04]
- topology: topo2
  cluster_default: false
  block:
    block_sizes:
      - 4
      - 16
    blocks:
      - block: b1
        nodes: node[01-04]
      - block: b2
        nodes: node[05-08]
      - block: b3
        nodes: node[09-12]
      - block: b4
        nodes: node[13-16]
- topology: topo3
  cluster_default: false
  flat: true
- topology: topo3a
  cluster_default: false
  flat:
    alpha_step_rank: true
- topology: topo4
  cluster_default: false
  ring:
    rings:
      - ring: ring0
        nodes: node[01-08]
      - ring: ring1
        nodes: node[09-16]
- topology: topo5
  cluster_default: false
  torus3d:
    toruses:
      - name: pod1
        dims:
          x: 4
          y: 4
          z: 2
        nodes: node[01-32]
        placements:
          - dims:
              x: 2
              y: 2
              z: 1
          - dims:
              x: 2
              y: 2
              z: 2
          - dims:
              x: 4
              y: 4
              z: 2
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2025 SchedMD LLC.

.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBtopology.conf\fR(5)
