.TH salloc "1" "Slurm Commands" "June 2022" "Slurm Commands"

.SH "NAME"
salloc \- Obtain a Slurm job allocation (a set of nodes), execute a command,
and then release the allocation when the command is finished.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsalloc\fR [\fIOPTIONS(0)\fR...] [ : [\fIOPTIONS(N)\fR...]] [\fIcommand(0)\fR [\fIargs(0)\fR...]]

Option(s) define multiple jobs in a co\-scheduled heterogeneous job.
For more details about heterogeneous jobs see the document
.br
https://slurm.schedmd.com/heterogeneous_jobs.html

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
salloc is used to allocate a Slurm job allocation, which is a set of resources
(nodes), possibly with some set of constraints (e.g. number of processors per
node).  When salloc successfully obtains the requested allocation, it then runs
the command specified by the user.  Finally, when the user specified command is
complete, salloc relinquishes the job allocation.

The command may be any program the user wishes.  Some typical commands are
xterm, a shell script containing srun commands, and srun (see the EXAMPLES
section). If no command is specified, then \fBsalloc\fR runs the user's default
shell.

The following document describes the influence of various options on the
allocation of cpus to jobs and tasks.
.br
https://slurm.schedmd.com/cpu_management.html

NOTE: The salloc logic includes support to save and restore the terminal line
settings and is designed to be executed in the foreground. If you need to
execute salloc in the background, set its standard input to some file, for
example: "salloc \-n16 a.out </dev/null &"

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If salloc is unable to execute the user command, it will
return 1 and print errors to stderr. Else if success or if killed by signals
HUP, INT, KILL, or QUIT: it will return 0.

.SH "COMMAND PATH RESOLUTION"

If provided, the command is resolved in the following order:
.br

1. If command starts with ".", then path is constructed as:
current working directory / command
.br
2. If command starts with a "/", then path is considered absolute.
.br
3. If command can be resolved through PATH. See \fBpath_resolution\fR(7).
.br
4. If command is in current working directory.
.P
Current working directory is the calling process working directory unless the
\fB\-\-chdir\fR argument is passed, which will override the current working
directory.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP

.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-account\fR=<\fIaccount\fR>
Charge resources used by this job to specified account.
The \fIaccount\fR is an arbitrary string. The account name may
be changed after job submission using the \fBscontrol\fR
command.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-acctg\-freq\fR=<\fIdatatype\fR>=<\fIinterval\fR>[,<\fIdatatype\fR>=<\fIinterval\fR>...]
Define the job accounting and profiling sampling intervals in seconds.
This can be used to override the \fIJobAcctGatherFrequency\fR parameter in
the slurm.conf file. <\fIdatatype\fR>=<\fIinterval\fR> specifies the task
sampling interval for the jobacct_gather plugin or a
sampling interval for a profiling type by the
acct_gather_profile plugin. Multiple
comma\-separated <\fIdatatype\fR>=<\fIinterval\fR> pairs
may be specified. Supported \fIdatatype\fR values are:
.RS
.TP 12
\fBtask\fR
Sampling interval for the jobacct_gather plugins and for task
profiling by the acct_gather_profile plugin.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This frequency is used to monitor memory usage. If memory limits
are enforced the highest frequency a user can request is what is configured in
the slurm.conf file.  It can not be disabled.
.IP

.TP
\fBenergy\fR
Sampling interval for energy profiling using the
acct_gather_energy plugin.
.IP

.TP
\fBnetwork\fR
Sampling interval for infiniband profiling using the
acct_gather_interconnect plugin.
.IP

.TP
\fBfilesystem\fR
Sampling interval for filesystem profiling using the
acct_gather_filesystem plugin.
.IP

.LP
The default value for the task sampling interval is 30 seconds.
The default value for all other intervals is 0.
An interval of 0 disables sampling of the specified type.
If the task sampling interval is 0, accounting
information is collected only at job termination (reducing Slurm
interference with the job).
.br
Smaller (non\-zero) values have a greater impact upon job performance,
but a value of 30 seconds is not likely to be noticeable for
applications having less than 10,000 tasks.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-\-bb\fR=<\fIspec\fR>
Burst buffer specification. The form of the specification is system dependent.
Note the burst buffer may not be accessible from a login node, but require
that salloc spawn a shell on one of its allocated compute nodes.
When the \fB\-\-bb\fR option is used, Slurm parses this option and creates a
temporary burst buffer script file that is used internally by the burst buffer
plugins. See Slurm's burst buffer guide for more information and examples:
.br
https://slurm.schedmd.com/burst_buffer.html
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-bbf\fR=<\fIfile_name\fR>
Path of file containing burst buffer specification.
The form of the specification is system dependent.
Also see \fB\-\-bb\fR.
Note the burst buffer may not be accessible from a login node, but require
that salloc spawn a shell on one of its allocated compute nodes.
See Slurm's burst buffer guide for more information and examples:
.br
https://slurm.schedmd.com/burst_buffer.html
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-begin\fR=<\fItime\fR>
Defer eligibility of this job allocation until the specified time.

Time may be of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR to run a job at
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
(If that time is already past, the next day is assumed.)
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, \fIfika\fR (3 PM) or
\fIteatime\fR (4 PM) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for running in the morning or the evening.
You can also say what day the job will be run, by specifying
a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR
\fIYYYY\-MM\-DD\fR. Combine date and time using the following
format \fIYYYY\-MM\-DD[THH:MM[:SS]]\fR. You can also
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIseconds\fR (default), \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR,
\fIdays\fR, or \fIweeks\fR and you can tell Slurm to run
the job today with the keyword \fItoday\fR and to run the
job tomorrow with the keyword \fItomorrow\fR.
The value may be changed after job submission using the
\fBscontrol\fR command.
For example:
.nf
   \-\-begin=16:00
   \-\-begin=now+1hour
   \-\-begin=now+60           (seconds by default)
   \-\-begin=2010\-01\-20T12:34:00
.fi

.RS
.PP
Notes on date/time specifications:
 \- Although the 'seconds' field of the HH:MM:SS time specification is
allowed by the code, note that the poll time of the Slurm scheduler
is not precise enough to guarantee dispatch of the job on the exact
second.  The job will be eligible to start on the next poll
following the specified time. The exact poll interval depends on the
Slurm scheduler (e.g., 60 seconds with the default sched/builtin).
 \- If no time (HH:MM:SS) is specified, the default is (00:00:00).
 \- If a date is specified without a year (e.g., MM/DD) then the current
year is assumed, unless the combination of MM/DD and HH:MM:SS has
already passed for that year, in which case the next year is used.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-\-bell\fR
Force salloc to ring the terminal bell when the job allocation is granted
(and only if stdout is a tty).  By default, salloc only rings the bell
if the allocation is pending for more than ten seconds (and only if stdout
is a tty). Also see the option \fB\-\-no\-bell\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-chdir\fR=<\fIpath\fR>
Change directory to \fIpath\fR before beginning execution. The path
can be specified as full path or relative path to the directory where
the command is executed.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-cluster\-constraint\fR=<\fIlist\fR>
Specifies features that a federated cluster must have to have a sibling job
submitted to it. Slurm will attempt to submit a sibling job to a cluster if it
has at least one of the specified features.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-clusters\fR=<\fIstring\fR>
Clusters to issue commands to.  Multiple cluster names may be comma separated.
The job will be submitted to the one cluster providing the earliest expected
job initiation time. The default value is the current cluster. A value of
\(aq\fIall\fR' will query to run on all clusters.
Note that the SlurmDBD must be up for this option to work properly.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-comment\fR=<\fIstring\fR>
An arbitrary comment.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-constraint\fR=<\fIlist\fR>
Nodes can have \fBfeatures\fR assigned to them by the Slurm administrator.
Users can specify which of these \fBfeatures\fR are required by their job
using the constraint option. If you are looking for 'soft' constraints please
see see \fB\-\-prefer\fR for more information.
Only nodes having features matching the job constraints will be used to
satisfy the request.
Multiple constraints may be specified with AND, OR, matching OR,
resource counts, etc. (some operators are not supported on all system types).
Supported \fbconstraint\fR options include:
.IP
.PD 1
.RS
.TP
\fBSingle Name\fR
Only nodes which have the specified feature will be used.
For example, \fB\-\-constraint="intel"\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBNode Count\fR
A request can specify the number of nodes needed with some feature
by appending an asterisk and count after the feature name.
For example, \fB\-\-nodes=16 \-\-constraint="graphics*4 ..."\fR
indicates that the job requires 16 nodes and that at least four of those
nodes must have the feature "graphics."
.IP

.TP
\fBAND\fR
If only nodes with all of specified features will be used.
The ampersand is used for an AND operator.
For example, \fB\-\-constraint="intel&gpu"\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBOR\fR
If only nodes with at least one of specified features will be used.
The vertical bar is used for an OR operator.
For example, \fB\-\-constraint="intel|amd"\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBMatching OR\fR
If only one of a set of possible options should be used for all allocated
nodes, then use the OR operator and enclose the options within square brackets.
For example, \fB\-\-constraint="[rack1|rack2|rack3|rack4]"\fR might
be used to specify that all nodes must be allocated on a single rack of
the cluster, but any of those four racks can be used.
.IP

.TP
\fBMultiple Counts\fR
Specific counts of multiple resources may be specified by using the AND
operator and enclosing the options within square brackets.
For example, \fB\-\-constraint="[rack1*2&rack2*4]"\fR might
be used to specify that two nodes must be allocated from nodes with the feature
of "rack1" and four nodes must be allocated from nodes with the feature
"rack2".

\fBNOTE:\fR This construct does not support multiple Intel KNL NUMA or MCDRAM
modes. For example, while \fB\-\-constraint="[(knl&quad)*2&(knl&hemi)*4]"\fR is
not supported, \fB\-\-constraint="[haswell*2&(knl&hemi)*4]"\fR is supported.
Specification of multiple KNL modes requires the use of a heterogeneous job.
.IP

.TP
\fBBrackets\fR
Brackets can be used to indicate that you are looking for a set of nodes with
the different requirements contained within the brackets. For example,
\fB\-\-constraint="[(rack1|rack2)*1&(rack3)*2]"\fR will get you one node with
either the "rack1" or "rack2" features and two nodes with the "rack3" feature.
The same request without the brackets will try to find a single node that
meets those requirements.

\fBNOTE:\fR Brackets are only reserved for \fBMultiple Counts\fR and
\fBMatching OR\fR syntax.
AND operators require a count for each feature inside square brackets
(i.e. "[quad*2&hemi*1]"). Slurm will only allow a single set of bracketed
constraints per job.
.IP

.TP
\fBParenthesis\fR
Parenthesis can be used to group like node features together. For example,
\fB\-\-constraint="[(knl&snc4&flat)*4&haswell*1]"\fR might be used to specify
that four nodes with the features "knl", "snc4" and "flat" plus one node with
the feature "haswell" are required. All options within parenthesis should be
grouped with AND (e.g. "&") operands.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-container\fR=<\fIpath_to_container\fR>
Absolute path to OCI container bundle.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-contiguous\fR
If set, then the allocated nodes must form a contiguous set.

\fBNOTE\fR: If SelectPlugin=cons_res this option won't be honored
with the \fBtopology/tree\fR or \fBtopology/3d_torus\fR
plugins, both of which can modify the node ordering.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-core\-spec\fR=<\fInum\fR>
Count of specialized cores per node reserved by the job for system operations
and not used by the application. The application will not use these cores,
but will be charged for their allocation.
Default value is dependent upon the node's configured CoreSpecCount value.
If a value of zero is designated and the Slurm configuration option
AllowSpecResourcesUsage is enabled, the job will be allowed to override
CoreSpecCount and use the specialized resources on nodes it is allocated.
This option can not be used with the \fB\-\-thread\-spec\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-cores\-per\-socket\fR=<\fIcores\fR>
Restrict node selection to nodes with at least the specified number of
cores per socket.  See additional information under \fB\-B\fR option
above when task/affinity plugin is enabled.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option may implicitly set the number of tasks (if \fB\-n\fR
was not specified) as one task per requested thread.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-cpu\-freq\fR=<\fIp1\fR>[\-\fIp2\fR[:\fIp3\fR]]

Request that job steps initiated by srun commands inside this allocation
be run at some requested frequency if possible, on the CPUs selected
for the step on the compute node(s).

\fBp1\fR can be  [#### | low | medium | high | highm1] which will set the
frequency scaling_speed to the corresponding value, and set the frequency
scaling_governor to UserSpace. See below for definition of the values.

\fBp1\fR can be [Conservative | OnDemand | Performance | PowerSave] which
will set the scaling_governor to the corresponding value. The governor has to be
in the list set by the slurm.conf option CpuFreqGovernors.

When \fBp2\fR is present, p1 will be the minimum scaling frequency and
p2 will be the maximum scaling frequency.

\fBp2\fR can be  [#### | medium | high | highm1] p2 must be greater than p1.

\fBp3\fR can be [Conservative | OnDemand | Performance | PowerSave | SchedUtil |
UserSpace]
which will set the governor to the corresponding value.

If \fBp3\fR is UserSpace, the frequency scaling_speed will be set by a power
or energy aware scheduling strategy to a value between p1 and p2 that lets the
job run within the site's power goal. The job may be delayed if p1 is higher
than a frequency that allows the job to run within the goal.

If the current frequency is < min, it will be set to min. Likewise,
if the current frequency is > max, it will be set to max.

Acceptable values at present include:
.RS
.TP 14
\fB####\fR
frequency in kilohertz
.IP

.TP
\fBLow\fR
the lowest available frequency
.IP

.TP
\fBHigh\fR
the highest available frequency
.IP

.TP
\fBHighM1\fR
(high minus one) will select the next highest available frequency
.IP

.TP
\fBMedium\fR
attempts to set a frequency in the middle of the available range
.IP

.TP
\fBConservative\fR
attempts to use the Conservative CPU governor
.IP

.TP
\fBOnDemand\fR
attempts to use the OnDemand CPU governor (the default value)
.IP

.TP
\fBPerformance\fR
attempts to use the Performance CPU governor
.IP

.TP
\fBPowerSave\fR
attempts to use the PowerSave CPU governor
.IP

.TP
\fBUserSpace\fR
attempts to use the UserSpace CPU governor
.IP

.TP
.RE

The following informational environment variable is set in the job
step when \fB\-\-cpu\-freq\fR option is requested.
.nf
        SLURM_CPU_FREQ_REQ
.fi

This environment variable can also be used to supply the value for the
CPU frequency request if it is set when the 'srun' command is issued.
The \fB\-\-cpu\-freq\fR on the command line will override the
environment variable value.  The form on the environment variable is
the same as the command line.
See the \fBENVIRONMENT VARIABLES\fR
section for a description of the SLURM_CPU_FREQ_REQ variable.

\fBNOTE\fR: This parameter is treated as a request, not a requirement.
If the job step's node does not support setting the CPU frequency, or
the requested value is outside the bounds of the legal frequencies, an
error is logged, but the job step is allowed to continue.

\fBNOTE\fR: Setting the frequency for just the CPUs of the job step
implies that the tasks are confined to those CPUs.  If task
confinement (i.e. the task/affinity TaskPlugin is enabled, or the task/cgroup
TaskPlugin is enabled with "ConstrainCores=yes" set in cgroup.conf) is not
configured, this parameter is ignored.

\fBNOTE\fR: When the step completes, the frequency and governor of each
selected CPU is reset to the previous values.

\fBNOTE\fR: When submitting jobs with  the \fB\-\-cpu\-freq\fR option
with linuxproc as the ProctrackType can cause jobs to run too quickly before
Accounting is able to poll for job information. As a result not all of
accounting information will be present.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-cpus\-per\-gpu\fR=<\fIncpus\fR>
Advise Slurm that ensuing job steps will require \fIncpus\fR processors per
allocated GPU.
Not compatible with the \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR=<\fIncpus\fR>
Advise Slurm that ensuing job steps will require \fIncpus\fR processors per
task. By default Slurm will allocate one processor per task.

For instance,
consider an application that has 4 tasks, each requiring 3 processors.  If our
cluster is comprised of quad\-processors nodes and we simply ask for
12 processors, the controller might give us only 3 nodes.  However, by using
the \-\-cpus\-per\-task=3 options, the controller knows that each task requires
3 processors on the same node, and the controller will grant an allocation
of 4 nodes, one for each of the 4 tasks.

\fBNOTE\fR: Beginning with 22.05, srun will not inherit the
\-\-cpus\-per\-task value requested by salloc or sbatch. It must be requested
again with the call to srun or set with the SRUN_CPUS_PER_TASK environment
variable if desired for the task(s).
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-deadline\fR=<\fIOPT\fR>
remove the job if no ending is possible before
this deadline (start > (deadline \- time[\-min])).
Default is no deadline.  Valid time formats are:
.br
HH:MM[:SS] [AM|PM]
.br
MMDD[YY] or MM/DD[/YY] or MM.DD[.YY]
.br
MM/DD[/YY]\-HH:MM[:SS]
.br
YYYY\-MM\-DD[THH:MM[:SS]]]
.br
now[+\fIcount\fR[seconds(default)|minutes|hours|days|weeks]]
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-delay\-boot\fR=<\fIminutes\fR>
Do not reboot nodes in order to satisfied this job's feature specification if
the job has been eligible to run for less than this time period.
If the job has waited for less than the specified period, it will use only
nodes which already have the specified features.
The argument is in units of minutes.
A default value may be set by a system administrator using the \fBdelay_boot\fR
option of the \fBSchedulerParameters\fR configuration parameter in the
slurm.conf file, otherwise the default value is zero (no delay).
.IP

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dependency\fR=<\fIdependency_list\fR>
Defer the start of this job until the specified dependencies have been
satisfied completed.
<\fIdependency_list\fR> is of the form
<\fItype:job_id[:job_id][,type:job_id[:job_id]]\fR> or
<\fItype:job_id[:job_id][?type:job_id[:job_id]]\fR>.
All dependencies must be satisfied if the "," separator is used.
Any dependency may be satisfied if the "?" separator is used.
Only one separator may be used.
Many jobs can share the same dependency and these jobs may even belong to
different  users. The  value may be changed after job submission using the
scontrol command.
Dependencies on remote jobs are allowed in a federation.
Once a job dependency fails due to the termination state of a preceding job,
the dependent job will never be run, even if the preceding job is requeued and
has a different termination state in a subsequent execution.
.IP
.PD
.RS
.TP
\fBafter:job_id[[+time][:jobid[+time]...]]\fR
After the specified jobs start or are cancelled and 'time' in minutes from job
start or cancellation happens, this
job can begin execution. If no 'time' is given then there is no delay after
start or cancellation.
.IP

.TP
\fBafterany:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated.
.IP

.TP
\fBafterburstbuffer:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated and
any associated burst buffer stage out operations have completed.
.IP

.TP
\fBaftercorr:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
A task of this job array can begin execution after the corresponding task ID
in the specified job has completed successfully (ran to completion with an
exit code of zero).
.IP

.TP
\fBafternotok:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated
in some failed state (non\-zero exit code, node failure, timed out, etc).
.IP

.TP
\fBafterok:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have successfully
executed (ran to completion with an exit code of zero).
.IP

.TP
\fBsingleton\fR
This job can begin execution after any previously launched jobs
sharing the same job name and user have terminated.
In other words, only one job by that name and owned by that user can be running
or suspended at any point in time.
In a federation, a singleton dependency must be fulfilled on all clusters
unless DependencyParameters=disable_remote_singleton is used in slurm.conf.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-distribution\fR={*|block|cyclic|arbitrary|plane=<\fIsize\fR>}[:{*|block|cyclic|fcyclic}[:{*|block|cyclic|fcyclic}]][,{Pack|NoPack}]

Specify alternate distribution methods for remote processes.
For job allocation, this sets environment variables that will be used by
subsequent srun requests and also affects which cores will be selected for
job allocation.

This option controls the distribution of tasks to the nodes on which
resources have been allocated, and the distribution of those resources
to tasks for binding (task affinity). The first distribution
method (before the first ":") controls the distribution of tasks to nodes. 
The second distribution method (after the first ":")
controls the distribution of allocated CPUs across sockets for binding
to tasks. The third distribution method (after the second ":") controls
the distribution of allocated CPUs across cores for binding to tasks.
The second and third distributions apply only if task affinity is enabled.
The third distribution is supported only if the task/cgroup plugin is
configured. The default value for each distribution type is specified by *.

Note that with select/cons_res and select/cons_tres, the number of CPUs
allocated to each socket and node may be different. Refer to
https://slurm.schedmd.com/mc_support.html
for more information on resource allocation, distribution of tasks to
nodes, and binding of tasks to CPUs.
.RS
First distribution method (distribution of tasks across nodes):

.TP
.B *
Use the default method for distributing tasks to nodes (block).
.IP

.TP
.B block
The block distribution method will distribute tasks to a node such
that consecutive tasks share a node. For example, consider an
allocation of three nodes each with two cpus. A four\-task block
distribution request will distribute those tasks to the nodes with
tasks one and two on the first node, task three on the second node,
and task four on the third node.  Block distribution is the default
behavior if the number of tasks exceeds the number of allocated nodes.
.IP

.TP
.B cyclic
The cyclic distribution method will distribute tasks to a node such
that consecutive tasks are distributed over consecutive nodes (in a
round\-robin fashion). For example, consider an allocation of three
nodes each with two cpus. A four\-task cyclic distribution request
will distribute those tasks to the nodes with tasks one and four on
the first node, task two on the second node, and task three on the
third node.
Note that when SelectType is select/cons_res, the same number of CPUs
may not be allocated on each node. Task distribution will be
round\-robin among all the nodes with CPUs yet to be assigned to tasks.
Cyclic distribution is the default behavior if the number
of tasks is no larger than the number of allocated nodes.
.IP

.TP
.B plane
The tasks are distributed in blocks of size <\fIsize\fR>. The size must be given
or SLURM_DIST_PLANESIZE must be set. The number of tasks
distributed to each node is the same as for cyclic distribution, but the
taskids assigned to each node depend on the plane size. Additional distribution
specifications cannot be combined with this option.
For more details (including examples and diagrams), please see
https://slurm.schedmd.com/mc_support.html and
https://slurm.schedmd.com/dist_plane.html
.IP

.TP
.B arbitrary
The arbitrary method of distribution will allocate processes in\-order
as listed in file designated by the environment variable
SLURM_HOSTFILE.  If this variable is listed it will over ride any
other method specified.  If not set the method will default to block.
Inside the hostfile must contain at minimum the number of hosts
requested and be one per line or comma separated.  If specifying a
task count (\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-ntasks\fR=<\fInumber\fR>), your tasks
will be laid out on the nodes in the order of the file.
.br
\fBNOTE:\fR The arbitrary distribution option on a job allocation only
controls the nodes to be allocated to the job and not the allocation of
CPUs on those nodes. This option is meant primarily to control a job step's
task layout in an existing job allocation for the srun command.
.br
\fBNOTE:\fR If the number of tasks is given and a list of requested nodes is
also given, the number of nodes used from that list will be reduced to match
that of the number of tasks if the number of nodes in the list is greater than
the number of tasks.
.IP

.LP
Second distribution method (distribution of CPUs across sockets for binding):

.TP
.B *
Use the default method for distributing CPUs across sockets (cyclic).
.IP

.TP
.B block
The block distribution method will distribute allocated CPUs 
consecutively from the same socket for binding to tasks, before using
the next consecutive socket.
.IP

.TP
.B cyclic
The cyclic distribution method will distribute allocated CPUs for
binding to a given task consecutively from the same socket, and
from the next consecutive socket for the next task, in a 
round\-robin fashion across sockets. 
Tasks requiring more than one CPU will have all of those CPUs allocated on a
single socket if possible.
.IP

.TP
.B fcyclic
The fcyclic distribution method will distribute allocated CPUs 
for binding to tasks from consecutive sockets in a
round\-robin fashion across the sockets.
Tasks requiring more than one CPU will have each CPUs allocated in a cyclic
fashion across sockets.
.IP

.LP
Third distribution method (distribution of CPUs across cores for binding):

.TP
.B *
Use the default method for distributing CPUs across cores
(inherited from second distribution method).
.IP

.TP
.B block
The block distribution method will distribute allocated CPUs 
consecutively from the same core for binding to tasks, before using
the next consecutive core.
.IP

.TP
.B cyclic
The cyclic distribution method will distribute allocated CPUs for
binding to a given task consecutively from the same core, and
from the next consecutive core for the next task, in a 
round\-robin fashion across cores. 
.IP

.TP
.B fcyclic
The fcyclic distribution method will distribute allocated CPUs 
for binding to tasks from consecutive cores in a
round\-robin fashion across the cores.
.IP

.LP
Optional control for task distribution over nodes:

.TP
.B Pack
Rather than evenly distributing a job step's tasks evenly across its allocated
nodes, pack them as tightly as possible on the nodes.
This only applies when the "block" task distribution method is used.
.IP

.TP
.B NoPack
Rather than packing a job step's tasks as tightly as possible on the nodes,
distribute them evenly.
This user option will supersede the SelectTypeParameters CR_Pack_Nodes
configuration parameter.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR=<\fInode_name_list\fR>
Explicitly exclude certain nodes from the resources granted to the job.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-exclusive\fR[={user|mcs}]
The job allocation can not share nodes with other running jobs (or just other
users with the "=user" option or with the "=mcs" option).
If user/mcs are not specified (i.e. the job allocation can not share nodes with
other running jobs), the job is allocated all CPUs and GRES on all nodes in the
allocation, but is only allocated as much memory as it requested. This is by
design to support gang scheduling, because suspended jobs still reside in
memory. To request all the memory on a node, use \fB\-\-mem=0\fR.
The default shared/exclusive behavior depends on system configuration and the
partition's \fBOverSubscribe\fR option takes precedence over the job's option.
NOTE: Since shared GRES (MPS) cannot be allocated at the same time as a sharing
GRES (GPU) this option only allocates all sharing GRES and no underlying shared
GRES.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-extra\-node\-info\fR=<\fIsockets\fR>[:\fIcores\fR[:\fIthreads\fR]]
Restrict node selection to nodes with at least the specified number of
sockets, cores per socket and/or threads per core.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: These options do not specify the resource allocation size.
Each value specified is considered a minimum.
An asterisk (*) can be used as a placeholder indicating that all available
resources of that type are to be utilized. Values can also be specified as
min\-max. The individual levels can also be specified in separate options if
desired:
.nf
    \fB\-\-sockets\-per\-node\fR=<\fIsockets\fR>
    \fB\-\-cores\-per\-socket\fR=<\fIcores\fR>
    \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR=<\fIthreads\fR>
.fi
If task/affinity plugin is enabled, then specifying an allocation in this
manner also results in subsequently launched tasks being bound to threads
if the \fB\-B\fR option specifies a thread count, otherwise an option of
\fIcores\fR if a core count is specified, otherwise an option of \fIsockets\fR.
If SelectType is configured to select/cons_res, it must have a parameter of
CR_Core, CR_Core_Memory, CR_Socket, or CR_Socket_Memory for this option
to be honored.
If not specified, the scontrol show job will display 'ReqS:C:T=*:*:*'. This
option applies to job allocations.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option is mutually exclusive with \fB\-\-hint\fR,
\fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR and \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option may implicitly set the number of tasks (if \fB\-n\fR
was not specified) as one task per requested thread.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-get\-user\-env\fR[=\fItimeout\fR][\fImode\fR]
This option will load login environment variables for the user specified
in the \fB\-\-uid\fR option.
The environment variables are retrieved by running something along the lines of
"su \- <username> \-c /usr/bin/env" and parsing the output.
Be aware that any environment variables already set in salloc's environment
will take precedence over any environment variables in the user's
login environment.
The optional \fItimeout\fR value is in seconds. Default value is 3 seconds.
The optional \fImode\fR value controls the "su" options.
With a \fImode\fR value of "S", "su" is executed without the "\-" option.
With a \fImode\fR value of "L", "su" is executed with the "\-" option,
replicating the login environment.
If \fImode\fR is not specified, the mode established at Slurm build time
is used.
Examples of use include "\-\-get\-user\-env", "\-\-get\-user\-env=10"
"\-\-get\-user\-env=10L", and "\-\-get\-user\-env=S".
NOTE: This option only works if the caller has an
effective uid of "root".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gid\fR=<\fIgroup\fR>
Submit the job with the specified \fIgroup\fR's group access permissions.
\fIgroup\fR may be the group name or the numerical group ID.
In the default Slurm configuration, this option is only valid when used
by the user root.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gpu\-bind\fR=[verbose,]<\fItype\fR>
Bind tasks to specific GPUs.
By default every spawned task can access every GPU allocated to the step.
If "verbose," is specified before <\fItype\fR>, then print out GPU binding
debug information to the stderr of the tasks. GPU binding is ignored if there is
only one task.

Supported \fItype\fR options:
.IP
.RS
.TP 10
\fBclosest\fR
Bind each task to the GPU(s) which are closest.
In a NUMA environment, each task may be bound to more than one GPU (i.e.
all GPUs in that NUMA environment).
.IP

.TP
\fBmap_gpu:<list>\fR
Bind by setting GPU masks on tasks (or ranks) as specified where <list> is
<gpu_id_for_task_0>,<gpu_id_for_task_1>,... GPU IDs are interpreted as decimal
values unless they are preceded with '0x' in which case they interpreted as
hexadecimal values. If the number of tasks (or ranks) exceeds the number of
elements in this list, elements in the list will be reused as needed starting
from the beginning of the list. To simplify support for large task counts,
the lists may follow a map with an asterisk and repetition count.
For example "map_gpu:0*4,1*4".
If the task/cgroup plugin is used and ConstrainDevices is set in cgroup.conf,
then the GPU IDs are zero\-based indexes relative to the GPUs allocated to the
job (e.g. the first GPU is 0, even if the global ID is 3). Otherwise, the GPU
IDs are global IDs, and all GPUs on each node in the job should be allocated for
predictable binding results.
.IP

.TP
\fBmask_gpu:<list>\fR
Bind by setting GPU masks on tasks (or ranks) as specified where <list> is
<gpu_mask_for_task_0>,<gpu_mask_for_task_1>,... The mapping is specified for
a node and identical mapping is applied to the tasks on every node (i.e. the
lowest task ID on each node is mapped to the first mask specified in the list,
etc.). GPU masks are always interpreted as hexadecimal values but can be
preceded with an optional '0x'. To simplify support for large task counts, the
lists may follow a map with an asterisk and repetition count.
For example "mask_gpu:0x0f*4,0xf0*4".
If the task/cgroup plugin is used and ConstrainDevices is set in cgroup.conf,
then the GPU IDs are zero\-based indexes relative to the GPUs allocated to the
job (e.g. the first GPU is 0, even if the global ID is 3). Otherwise, the GPU
IDs are global IDs, and all GPUs on each node in the job should be allocated for
predictable binding results.
.IP

.TP
\fBnone\fR
Do not bind tasks to GPUs (turns off binding if \-\-gpus\-per\-task is
requested).
.IP

.TP
\fBper_task:<gpus_per_task>\fR
Each task will be bound to the number of gpus specified in
\fI<gpus_per_task>\fR. Gpus are assigned in order to tasks. The first task will
be assigned the first x number of gpus on the node etc.
.IP

.TP
\fBsingle:<tasks_per_gpu>\fR
Like \fI\-\-gpu\-bind=closest\fR, except that each task can only be bound to a
single GPU, even when it can be bound to multiple GPUs that are equally close.
The GPU to bind to is determined by \fI<tasks_per_gpu>\fR, where the
first \fI<tasks_per_gpu>\fR tasks are bound to the first GPU available, the
second \fI<tasks_per_gpu>\fR tasks are bound to the second GPU available, etc.
This is basically a block distribution of tasks onto available GPUs, where the
available GPUs are determined by the socket affinity of the task and the socket
affinity of the GPUs as specified in gres.conf's \fICores\fR parameter.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gpu\-freq\fR=[<\fItype\fR]=\fIvalue\fR>[,<\fItype\fR=\fIvalue\fR>][,verbose]
Request that GPUs allocated to the job are configured with specific frequency
values.
This option can be used to independently configure the GPU and its memory
frequencies.
After the job is completed, the frequencies of all affected GPUs will be reset
to the highest possible values.
In some cases, system power caps may override the requested values.
The field \fItype\fR can be "memory".
If \fItype\fR is not specified, the GPU frequency is implied.
The \fIvalue\fR field can either be "low", "medium", "high", "highm1" or
a numeric value in megahertz (MHz).
If the specified numeric value is not possible, a value as close as
possible will be used. See below for definition of the values.
The \fIverbose\fR option causes current GPU frequency information to be logged.
Examples of use include "\-\-gpu\-freq=medium,memory=high" and
"\-\-gpu\-freq=450".

Supported \fIvalue\fR definitions:
.IP
.RS
.TP 10
\fBlow\fR
the lowest available frequency.
.IP

.TP
\fBmedium\fR
attempts to set a frequency in the middle of the available range.
.IP

.TP
\fBhigh\fR
the highest available frequency.
.IP

.TP
\fBhighm1\fR
(high minus one) will select the next highest available frequency.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-gpus\fR=[\fItype\fR:]<\fInumber\fR>
Specify the total number of GPUs required for the job.
An optional GPU type specification can be supplied.
For example "\-\-gpus=volta:3".
Multiple options can be requested in a comma separated list, for example:
"\-\-gpus=volta:3,kepler:1".
See also the \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-node\fR, \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-socket\fR and
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR options.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: The allocation has to contain at least one GPU per node.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-node\fR=[\fItype\fR:]<\fInumber\fR>
Specify the number of GPUs required for the job on each node included in
the job's resource allocation.
An optional GPU type specification can be supplied.
For example "\-\-gpus\-per\-node=volta:3".
Multiple options can be requested in a comma separated list, for example:
"\-\-gpus\-per\-node=volta:3,kepler:1".
See also the \fB\-\-gpus\fR, \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-socket\fR and
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR options.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-socket\fR=[\fItype\fR:]<\fInumber\fR>
Specify the number of GPUs required for the job on each socket included in
the job's resource allocation.
An optional GPU type specification can be supplied.
For example "\-\-gpus\-per\-socket=volta:3".
Multiple options can be requested in a comma separated list, for example:
"\-\-gpus\-per\-socket=volta:3,kepler:1".
Requires job to specify a sockets per node count ( \-\-sockets\-per\-node).
See also the \fB\-\-gpus\fR, \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-node\fR and
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR options.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR=[\fItype\fR:]<\fInumber\fR>
Specify the number of GPUs required for the job on each task to be spawned
in the job's resource allocation.
An optional GPU type specification can be supplied.
For example "\-\-gpus\-per\-task=volta:1". Multiple options can be
requested in a comma separated list, for example:
"\-\-gpus\-per\-task=volta:3,kepler:1". See also the \fB\-\-gpus\fR,
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-socket\fR and \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-node\fR options.
This option requires an explicit task count, e.g. \-n, \-\-ntasks or "\-\-gpus=X
\-\-gpus\-per\-task=Y" rather than an ambiguous range of nodes with \-N, \-\-nodes.
This option will implicitly set \-\-gpu\-bind=per_task:<gpus_per_task>, but that
can be overridden with an explicit \-\-gpu\-bind specification.
.br
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gres\fR=<\fIlist\fR>
Specifies a comma\-delimited list of generic consumable resources.
The format of each entry on the list is "name[[:type]:count]".
The name is that of the consumable resource.
The count is the number of those resources with a default value of 1.
The count can have a suffix of
"k" or "K" (multiple of 1024),
"m" or "M" (multiple of 1024 x 1024),
"g" or "G" (multiple of 1024 x 1024 x 1024),
"t" or "T" (multiple of 1024 x 1024 x 1024 x 1024),
"p" or "P" (multiple of 1024 x 1024 x 1024 x 1024 x 1024).
The specified resources will be allocated to the job on each node.
The available generic consumable resources is configurable by the system
administrator.
A list of available generic consumable resources will be printed and the
command will exit if the option argument is "help".
Examples of use include "\-\-gres=gpu:2", "\-\-gres=gpu:kepler:2", and
"\-\-gres=help".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-gres\-flags\fR=<\fItype\fR>
Specify generic resource task binding options.
.IP
.RS
.TP
.B disable\-binding
Disable filtering of CPUs with respect to generic resource locality.
This option is currently required to use more CPUs than are bound to a GRES
(i.e. if a GPU is bound to the CPUs on one socket, but resources on more than
one socket are required to run the job).
This option may permit a job to be allocated resources sooner than otherwise
possible, but may result in lower job performance.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option is specific to \fBSelectType=cons_res\fR.
.IP

.TP
.B enforce\-binding
The only CPUs available to the job will be those bound to the selected
GRES (i.e. the CPUs identified in the gres.conf file will be strictly
enforced). This option may result in delayed initiation of a job.
For example a job requiring two GPUs and one CPU will be delayed until both
GPUs on a single socket are available rather than using GPUs bound to separate
sockets, however, the application performance may be improved due to improved
communication speed.
Requires the node to be configured with more than one socket and resource
filtering will be performed on a per\-socket basis.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option is specific to \fBSelectType=cons_tres\fR.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help information and exit.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-hint\fR=<\fItype\fR>
Bind tasks according to application hints.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option cannot be used in conjunction with
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR, \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR or \fB\-B\fR. If
\fB\-\-hint\fR is specified as a command line argument, it will take
precedence over the environment.
.IP
.RS
.TP
.B compute_bound
Select settings for compute bound applications:
use all cores in each socket, one thread per core.
.IP

.TP
.B memory_bound
Select settings for memory bound applications:
use only one core in each socket, one thread per core.
.IP

.TP
.B [no]multithread
[don't] use extra threads with in\-core multi\-threading
which can benefit communication intensive applications.
Only supported with the task/affinity plugin.
.IP

.TP
.B help
show this help message
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-H, \-\-hold\fR
Specify the job is to be submitted in a held state (priority of zero).
A held job can now be released using scontrol to reset its priority
(e.g. "\fIscontrol release <job_id>\fR").
.IP

.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-immediate\fR[=<\fIseconds\fR>]
exit if resources are not available within the
time period specified.
If no argument is given (seconds defaults to 1), resources must be available
immediately for the request to succeed. If \fBdefer\fR is configured in
\fBSchedulerParameters\fR and seconds=1 the allocation request will fail
immediately; \fBdefer\fR conflicts and takes precedence over this option.
By default, \fB\-\-immediate\fR is off, and the command
will block until resources become available. Since this option's
argument is optional, for proper parsing the single letter option must
be followed immediately with the value and not include a space between
them. For example "\-I60" and not "\-I 60".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-job\-name\fR=<\fIjobname\fR>
Specify a name for the job allocation. The specified name will appear along with
the job id number when querying running jobs on the system.  The default job
name is the name of the "command" specified on the command line.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-kill\-command\fR[=\fIsignal\fR]
salloc always runs a user\-specified command once the allocation is
granted.  salloc will wait indefinitely for that command to exit.
If you specify the \fB\-\-kill\-command\fR option salloc will send a signal to
your command any time that the Slurm controller tells salloc that its job
allocation has been revoked. The job allocation can be revoked for a
couple of reasons: someone used \fBscancel\fR to revoke the allocation,
or the allocation reached its time limit.  If you do not specify a signal
name or number and Slurm is configured to signal the spawned command at job
termination, the default signal is SIGHUP for interactive and SIGTERM for
non\-interactive sessions. Since this option's argument is optional,
for proper parsing the single letter option must be followed
immediately with the value and not include a space between them. For
example "\-K1" and not "\-K 1".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-licenses\fR=<\fIlicense\fR>[@\fIdb\fR][:\fIcount\fR][,\fIlicense\fR[@\fIdb\fR][:\fIcount\fR]...]
Specification of licenses (or other resources available on all
nodes of the cluster) which must be allocated to this job.
License names can be followed by a colon and count
(the default count is one).
Multiple license names should be comma separated (e.g.
"\-\-licenses=foo:4,bar").

\fBNOTE\fR: When submitting heterogeneous jobs, license requests only work
correctly when made on the first component job.
For example "salloc \-L ansys:2 :".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR=<\fItype\fR>
Notify user by email when certain event types occur.
Valid \fItype\fR values are NONE, BEGIN, END, FAIL, REQUEUE, ALL (equivalent to
BEGIN, END, FAIL, INVALID_DEPEND, REQUEUE, and STAGE_OUT), INVALID_DEPEND
(dependency never satisfied), STAGE_OUT (burst buffer stage out and teardown
completed), TIME_LIMIT, TIME_LIMIT_90 (reached 90 percent of time limit),
TIME_LIMIT_80 (reached 80 percent of time limit), and TIME_LIMIT_50 (reached 50
percent of time limit).
Multiple \fItype\fR values may be specified in a comma separated list.
The user to be notified is indicated with \fB\-\-mail\-user\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mail\-user\fR=<\fIuser\fR>
User to receive email notification of state changes as defined by
\fB\-\-mail\-type\fR.
The default value is the submitting user.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mcs\-label\fR=<\fImcs\fR>
Used only when the mcs/group plugin is enabled.
This parameter is a group among the groups of the user.
Default value is calculated by the Plugin mcs if it's enabled.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\fR=<\fIsize\fR>[\fIunits\fR]
Specify the real memory required per node.
Default units are megabytes.
Different units can be specified using the suffix [K|M|G|T].
Default value is \fBDefMemPerNode\fR and the maximum value is
\fBMaxMemPerNode\fR. If configured, both of parameters can be
seen using the \fBscontrol show config\fR command.
This parameter would generally be used if whole nodes
are allocated to jobs (\fBSelectType=select/linear\fR).
Also see \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR.
The \fB\-\-mem\fR, \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR
options are mutually exclusive. If \fB\-\-mem\fR, \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR or
\fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR are specified as command line arguments, then they will
take precedence over the environment.

NOTE: A memory size specification of zero is treated as a special case and
grants the job access to all of the memory on each node.

NOTE: Enforcement of memory limits currently relies upon the task/cgroup plugin
or enabling of accounting, which samples memory use on a periodic basis (data
need not be stored, just collected). In both cases memory use is based upon
the job's Resident Set Size (RSS). A task may exceed the memory limit until
the next periodic accounting sample.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR=[{quiet|verbose},]<\fItype\fR>
Bind tasks to memory. Used only when the task/affinity plugin is enabled
and the NUMA memory functions are available.
\fBNote that the resolution of CPU and memory binding
may differ on some architectures.\fR For example, CPU binding may be performed
at the level of the cores within a processor while memory binding will
be performed at the level of nodes, where the definition of "nodes"
may differ from system to system.
By default no memory binding is performed; any task using any CPU can use
any memory. This option is typically used to ensure that each task is bound to
the memory closest to its assigned CPU. \fBThe use of any type other than
"none" or "local" is not recommended.\fR

NOTE: To have Slurm always report on the selected memory binding for
all commands executed in a shell, you can enable verbose mode by
setting the SLURM_MEM_BIND environment variable value to "verbose".

The following informational environment variables are set when
\fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR is in use:

.nf
	SLURM_MEM_BIND_LIST
	SLURM_MEM_BIND_PREFER
	SLURM_MEM_BIND_SORT
	SLURM_MEM_BIND_TYPE
	SLURM_MEM_BIND_VERBOSE
.fi

See the \fBENVIRONMENT VARIABLES\fR section for a more detailed description
of the individual SLURM_MEM_BIND* variables.

Supported options include:
.IP
.RS
.TP
.B help
show this help message
.IP

.TP
.B local
Use memory local to the processor in use
.IP

.TP
.B map_mem:<list>
Bind by setting memory masks on tasks (or ranks) as specified where <list> is
<numa_id_for_task_0>,<numa_id_for_task_1>,...
The mapping is specified for a node and identical mapping is applied to the
tasks on every node (i.e. the lowest task ID on each node is mapped to the
first ID specified in the list, etc.).
NUMA IDs are interpreted as decimal values unless they are preceded
with '0x' in which case they interpreted as hexadecimal values.
If the number of tasks (or ranks) exceeds the number of elements in this list,
elements in the list will be reused as needed starting from the beginning of
the list.
To simplify support for large task counts, the lists may follow a map with an
asterisk and repetition count.
For example "map_mem:0x0f*4,0xf0*4".
For predictable binding results, all CPUs for each node in the job should be
allocated to the job.
.IP

.TP
.B mask_mem:<list>
Bind by setting memory masks on tasks (or ranks) as specified where <list> is
<numa_mask_for_task_0>,<numa_mask_for_task_1>,...
The mapping is specified for a node and identical mapping is applied to the
tasks on every node (i.e. the lowest task ID on each node is mapped to the
first mask specified in the list, etc.).
NUMA masks are \fBalways\fR interpreted as hexadecimal values.
Note that masks must be preceded with a '0x' if they don't begin
with [0\-9] so they are seen as numerical values.
If the number of tasks (or ranks) exceeds the number of elements in this list,
elements in the list will be reused as needed starting from the beginning of
the list.
To simplify support for large task counts, the lists may follow a mask with an
asterisk and repetition count.
For example "mask_mem:0*4,1*4".
For predictable binding results, all CPUs for each node in the job should be
allocated to the job.
.IP

.TP
.B no[ne]
don't bind tasks to memory (default)
.IP

.TP
.B p[refer]
Prefer use of first specified NUMA node, but permit
 use of other available NUMA nodes.
.IP

.TP
.B q[uiet]
quietly bind before task runs (default)
.IP

.TP
.B rank
bind by task rank (not recommended)
.IP

.TP
.B sort
sort free cache pages (run zonesort on Intel KNL nodes)
.IP

.TP
.B v[erbose]
verbosely report binding before task runs
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR=<\fIsize\fR>[\fIunits\fR]
Minimum memory required per allocated CPU.
Default units are megabytes.
Different units can be specified using the suffix [K|M|G|T].
The default value is \fBDefMemPerCPU\fR and the maximum value is
\fBMaxMemPerCPU\fR (see exception below). If configured, both parameters can be
seen using the \fBscontrol show config\fR command.
Note that if the job's \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR value exceeds the configured
\fBMaxMemPerCPU\fR, then the user's limit will be treated as a memory limit
per task; \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR will be reduced to a value no larger than
\fBMaxMemPerCPU\fR; \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR will be set and the value of
\fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR multiplied by the new \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR
value will equal the original \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR value specified by
the user.
This parameter would generally be used if individual processors
are allocated to jobs (\fBSelectType=select/cons_res\fR).
If resources are allocated by core, socket, or whole nodes, then the number
of CPUs allocated to a job may be higher than the task count and the value
of \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR should be adjusted accordingly.
Also see \fB\-\-mem\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR.
The \fB\-\-mem\fR, \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR
options are mutually exclusive.

NOTE: If the final amount of memory requested by a job
can't be satisfied by any of the nodes configured in the
partition, the job will be rejected.
This could happen if \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR is used with the
\fB\-\-exclusive\fR option for a job allocation and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR
times the number of CPUs on a node is greater than the total memory of that
node.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR=<\fIsize\fR>[\fIunits\fR]
Minimum memory required per allocated GPU.
Default units are megabytes.
Different units can be specified using the suffix [K|M|G|T].
Default value is \fBDefMemPerGPU\fR and is available on both a global and
per partition basis.
If configured, the parameters can be seen using the \fBscontrol show config\fR
and \fBscontrol show partition\fR commands.
Also see \fB\-\-mem\fR.
The \fB\-\-mem\fR, \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR
options are mutually exclusive.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-mincpus\fR=<\fIn\fR>
Specify a minimum number of logical cpus/processors per node.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-network\fR=<\fItype\fR>
Specify information pertaining to the switch or network.
The interpretation of \fItype\fR is system dependent.
This option is supported when running Slurm on a Cray natively.  It is
used to request using Network Performance Counters.
Only one value per request is valid.
All options are case in\-sensitive.
In this configuration supported values include:
.IP
.RS
.TP 6
\fBsystem\fR
Use the system\-wide network performance counters. Only nodes requested
will be marked in use for the job allocation.  If the job does not
fill up the entire system the rest of the nodes are not
able to be used by other jobs using NPC, if idle their state will appear as
PerfCnts.  These nodes are still available for other jobs not using NPC.
.IP

.TP
\fBblade\fR
Use the blade network performance counters. Only nodes requested
will be marked in use for the job allocation.  If the job does not
fill up the entire blade(s) allocated to the job those blade(s) are not
able to be used by other jobs using NPC, if idle their state will appear as
PerfCnts.  These nodes are still available for other jobs not using NPC.
.RE
.IP

In all cases the job allocation request \fBmust specify the
\-\-exclusive option\fR.  Otherwise the request will be denied.

Also with any of these options steps are not allowed to share blades,
so resources would remain idle inside an allocation if the step
running on a blade does not take up all the nodes on the blade.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-nice\fR[=\fIadjustment\fR]
Run the job with an adjusted scheduling priority within Slurm. With no
adjustment value the scheduling priority is decreased by 100. A negative nice
value increases the priority, otherwise decreases it. The adjustment range is
+/\- 2147483645. Only privileged users can specify a negative adjustment.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-no\-bell\fR
Silence salloc's use of the terminal bell. Also see the option \fB\-\-bell\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-no\-kill\fR[=off]
Do not automatically terminate a job if one of the nodes it has been
allocated fails.  The user will assume the responsibilities for fault\-tolerance
should a node fail.  When there is a node failure, any active job steps (usually
MPI jobs) on that node will almost certainly suffer a fatal error, but with
\fB\-\-no\-kill\fR, the job allocation will not be revoked so the user may
launch new job steps on the remaining nodes in their allocation.

Specify an optional argument of "off" disable the effect of the
\fBSALLOC_NO_KILL\fR environment variable.

By default Slurm terminates the entire job allocation if any node fails in its
range of allocated nodes.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-no\-shell\fR
immediately exit after allocating resources, without running a
command. However, the Slurm job will still be created and will remain
active and will own the allocated resources as long as it is active.
You will have a Slurm job id with no associated processes or
tasks. You can submit \fBsrun\fR commands against this resource allocation,
if you specify the \fB\-\-jobid=\fR option with the job id of this Slurm job.
Or, this can be used to temporarily reserve a set of resources so that
other jobs cannot use them for some period of time.  (Note that the
Slurm job is subject to the normal constraints on jobs, including time
limits, so that eventually the job will terminate and the resources
will be freed, or you can terminate the job manually using the
\fBscancel\fR command.)
.IP

.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-nodefile\fR=<\fInode_file\fR>
Much like \fB\-\-nodelist\fR, but the list is contained in a file of name
\fInode file\fR.  The node names of the list may also span multiple lines
in the file.    Duplicate node names in the file will be ignored.
The order of the node names in the list is not important; the node names
will be sorted by Slurm.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-nodelist\fR=<\fInode_name_list\fR>
Request a specific list of hosts.
The job will contain \fIall\fR of these hosts and possibly additional hosts
as needed to satisfy resource requirements.
The list may be specified as a comma\-separated list of hosts, a range of hosts
(host[1\-5,7,...] for example), or a filename.
The host list will be assumed to be a filename if it contains a "/" character.
If you specify a minimum node or processor count larger than can be satisfied
by the supplied host list, additional resources will be allocated on other
nodes as needed.
Duplicate node names in the list will be ignored.
The order of the node names in the list is not important; the node names
will be sorted by Slurm.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nodes\fR=<\fIminnodes\fR>[\-\fImaxnodes\fR]
Request that a minimum of \fIminnodes\fR nodes be allocated to this job.
A maximum node count may also be specified with \fImaxnodes\fR.
If only one number is specified, this is used as both the minimum and
maximum node count.
The partition's node limits supersede those of the job.
If a job's node limits are outside of the range permitted for its
associated partition, the job will be left in a PENDING state.
This permits possible execution at a later time, when the partition
limit is changed.
If a job node limit exceeds the number of nodes configured in the
partition, the job will be rejected.
Note that the environment
variable \fBSLURM_JOB_NUM_NODES\fR will be set to the count of nodes actually
allocated to the job. See the \fBENVIRONMENT VARIABLES \fR section
for more information.  If \fB\-N\fR is not specified, the default
behavior is to allocate enough nodes to satisfy the requested resources as
expressed by per\-job specification options, e.g. \fB\-n\fR, \fB\-c\fR and
\fB--gpus\fR.
The job will be allocated as many nodes as possible within the range specified
and without delaying the initiation of the job.
The node count specification may include a numeric value followed by a suffix
of "k" (multiplies numeric value by 1,024) or "m" (multiplies numeric value by
1,048,576).
.IP

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-ntasks\fR=<\fInumber\fR>
salloc does not launch tasks, it requests an allocation of resources and
executed some command. This option advises the Slurm controller that job
steps run within this allocation will launch a maximum of \fInumber\fR
tasks and sufficient resources are allocated to accomplish this.
The default is one task per node, but note
that the \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR option will change this default.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR=<\fIntasks\fR>
Request the maximum \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each core.
Meant to be used with the \fB\-\-ntasks\fR option.
Related to \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR except at the core level
instead of the node level.
\fBNOTE\fR: This option is not supported when using
\fISelectType=select/linear\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-gpu\fR=<\fIntasks\fR>
Request that there are \fIntasks\fR tasks invoked for every GPU.
This option can work in two ways: 1) either specify \fB\-\-ntasks\fR in
addition, in which case a type\-less GPU specification will be automatically
determined to satisfy \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-gpu\fR, or 2) specify the GPUs wanted
(e.g. via \fB\-\-gpus\fR or \fB\-\-gres\fR) without specifying \fB\-\-ntasks\fR,
and the total task count will be automatically determined.
The number of CPUs needed will be automatically increased if necessary to allow
for any calculated task count.
This option will implicitly set \fB\-\-gpu\-bind=single:<ntasks>\fR, but that
can be overridden with an explicit \fB\-\-gpu\-bind\fR specification.
This option is not compatible with a node range
(i.e. \-N<\fIminnodes\fR\-\fImaxnodes\fR>).
This option is not compatible with \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR,
\fB\-\-gpus\-per\-socket\fR, or \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR.
This option is not supported unless \fISelectType=cons_tres\fR is
configured (either directly or indirectly on Cray systems).
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR=<\fIntasks\fR>
Request that \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each node.
If used with the \fB\-\-ntasks\fR option, the \fB\-\-ntasks\fR option will take
precedence and the \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR will be treated as a
\fImaximum\fR count of tasks per node.
Meant to be used with the \fB\-\-nodes\fR option.
This is related to \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR=\fIncpus\fR,
but does not require knowledge of the actual number of cpus on
each node.  In some cases, it is more convenient to be able to
request that no more than a specific number of tasks be invoked
on each node.  Examples of this include submitting
a hybrid MPI/OpenMP app where only one MPI "task/rank" should be
assigned to each node while allowing the OpenMP portion to utilize
all of the parallelism present in the node, or submitting a single
setup/cleanup/monitoring job to each node of a pre\-existing
allocation as one step in a larger job script.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-socket\fR=<\fIntasks\fR>
Request the maximum \fIntasks\fR be invoked on each socket.
Meant to be used with the \fB\-\-ntasks\fR option.
Related to \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR except at the socket level
instead of the node level.
\fBNOTE\fR: This option is not supported when using
\fISelectType=select/linear\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-overcommit\fR
Overcommit resources.

When applied to a job allocation (not including jobs requesting exclusive
access to the nodes) the resources are allocated as if only one task per
node is requested. This means that the requested number of cpus per task
(\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR) are allocated per node rather than
being multiplied by the number of tasks. Options used to specify the number
of tasks per node, socket, core, etc. are ignored.

When applied to job step allocations (the \fBsrun\fR command when executed
within an existing job allocation), this option can be used to launch more than
one task per CPU.
Normally, \fBsrun\fR will not allocate more than one process per CPU.
By specifying \fB\-\-overcommit\fR you are explicitly allowing more than one
process per CPU. However no more than \fBMAX_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR tasks are
permitted to execute per node.  NOTE: \fBMAX_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR is
defined in the file \fIslurm.h\fR and is not a variable, it is set at
Slurm build time.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-oversubscribe\fR
The job allocation can over\-subscribe resources with other running jobs.
The resources to be over\-subscribed can be nodes, sockets, cores, and/or
hyperthreads depending upon configuration.
The default over\-subscribe behavior depends on system configuration and the
partition's \fBOverSubscribe\fR option takes precedence over the job's option.
This option may result in the allocation being granted sooner than if the
\fB\-\-oversubscribe\fR option was not set and allow higher system utilization,
but application performance will likely suffer due to competition for resources.
Also see the \fB\-\-exclusive\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR=<\fIpartition_names\fR>
Request a specific partition for the resource allocation.  If not specified,
the default behavior is to allow the slurm controller to select the default
partition as designated by the system administrator. If the job can use more
than one partition, specify their names in a comma separate list and the one
offering earliest initiation will be used with no regard given to the partition
name ordering (although higher priority partitions will be considered first).
When the job is initiated, the name of the partition used will be placed first
in the job record partition string.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-power\fR=<\fIflags\fR>
Comma separated list of power management plugin options.
Currently available flags include:
level (all nodes allocated to the job should have identical power caps,
may be disabled by the Slurm configuration option PowerParameters=job_no_level).
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-prefer\fR=<\fIlist\fR>
Nodes can have \fBfeatures\fR assigned to them by the Slurm administrator.
Users can specify which of these \fBfeatures\fR are desired but not required by
their job using the prefer option.
This option operates independently from \fB\-\-constraint\fR and will override
whatever is set there if possible.
When scheduling the features in \fB\-\-prefer\fR are tried first if a node set
isn't available with those features then \fB\-\-constraint\fR is attempted.
See \fB\-\-constraint\fR for more information, this option behaves the same
way.

.TP
\fB\-\-priority\fR=<\fIvalue\fR>
Request a specific job priority.
May be subject to configuration specific constraints.
\fIvalue\fR should either be a numeric value or "TOP" (for highest possible value).
Only Slurm operators and administrators can set the priority of a job.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-profile\fR={all|none|<\fItype\fR>[,<\fItype\fR>...]}
Enables detailed data collection by the acct_gather_profile plugin.
Detailed data are typically time\-series that are stored in an HDF5 file for
the job or an InfluxDB database depending on the configured plugin.
.IP
.RS
.TP 10
\fBAll\fR
All data types are collected. (Cannot be combined with other values.)
.IP

.TP
\fBNone\fR
No data types are collected. This is the default.
 (Cannot be combined with other values.)
.IP
.RE

Valid \fItype\fR values are:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBEnergy\fR
Energy data is collected.
.IP

.TP
\fBTask\fR
Task (I/O, Memory, ...) data is collected.
.IP

.TP
\fBLustre\fR
Lustre data is collected.
.IP

.TP
\fBNetwork\fR
Network (InfiniBand) data is collected.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-qos\fR=<\fIqos\fR>
Request a quality of service for the job.  QOS values can be defined
for each user/cluster/account association in the Slurm database.
Users will be limited to their association's defined set of qos's when
the Slurm configuration parameter, AccountingStorageEnforce, includes
"qos" in its definition.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Suppress informational messages from salloc. Errors will still be displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-reboot\fR
Force the allocated nodes to reboot before starting the job.
This is only supported with some system configurations and will otherwise be
silently ignored. Only root, \fISlurmUser\fR or admins can reboot nodes.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-reservation\fR=<\fIreservation_names\fR>
Allocate resources for the job from the named reservation. If the job can use
more than one reservation, specify their names in a comma separate list and the
one offering earliest initiation. Each reservation will be considered in the
order it was requested.
All reservations will be listed in scontrol/squeue through the life of the job.
In accounting the first reservation will be seen and after the job starts the
reservation used will replace it.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-signal\fR=[R:]<\fIsig_num\fR>[@\fIsig_time\fR]
When a job is within \fIsig_time\fR seconds of its end time,
send it the signal \fIsig_num\fR.
Due to the resolution of event handling by Slurm, the signal may
be sent up to 60 seconds earlier than specified.
\fIsig_num\fR may either be a signal number or name (e.g. "10" or "USR1").
\fIsig_time\fR must have an integer value between 0 and 65535.
By default, no signal is sent before the job's end time.
If a \fIsig_num\fR is specified without any \fIsig_time\fR,
the default time will be 60 seconds.
Use the "R:" option to allow this job to overlap with a reservation with
MaxStartDelay set.
To have the signal sent at preemption time see the
\fBpreempt_send_user_signal\fR \fBSlurmctldParameter\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-sockets\-per\-node\fR=<\fIsockets\fR>
Restrict node selection to nodes with at least the specified number of
sockets.  See additional information under \fB\-B\fR option above when
task/affinity plugin is enabled.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option may implicitly set the number of tasks (if \fB\-n\fR
was not specified) as one task per requested thread.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-spread\-job\fR
Spread the job allocation over as many nodes as possible and attempt to
evenly distribute tasks across the allocated nodes.
This option disables the topology/tree plugin.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-switches\fR=<\fIcount\fR>[@\fImax\-time\fR]
When a tree topology is used, this defines the maximum count of leaf switches
desired for the job allocation and optionally the maximum time to wait
for that number of switches. If Slurm finds an allocation containing more
switches than the count specified, the job remains pending until it either finds
an allocation with desired switch count or the time limit expires.
It there is no switch count limit, there is no delay in starting the job.
Acceptable time formats include "minutes", "minutes:seconds",
"hours:minutes:seconds", "days\-hours", "days\-hours:minutes" and
"days\-hours:minutes:seconds".
The job's maximum time delay may be limited by the system administrator using
the \fBSchedulerParameters\fR configuration parameter with the
\fBmax_switch_wait\fR parameter option.
On a dragonfly network the only switch count supported is 1 since communication
performance will be highest when a job is allocate resources on one leaf switch
or more than 2 leaf switches.
The default max\-time is the max_switch_wait SchedulerParameters.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-thread\-spec\fR=<\fInum\fR>
Count of specialized threads per node reserved by the job for system operations
and not used by the application. The application will not use these threads,
but will be charged for their allocation.
This option can not be used with the \fB\-\-core\-spec\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR=<\fIthreads\fR>
Restrict node selection to nodes with at least the specified number of
threads per core. In task layout, use the specified maximum number of threads
per core. NOTE: "Threads" refers to the number of processing units on
each core rather than the number of application tasks to be launched per core.
See additional information under \fB\-B\fR option above when task/affinity
plugin is enabled.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: This option may implicitly set the number of tasks (if \fB\-n\fR
was not specified) as one task per requested thread.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR=<\fItime\fR>
Set a limit on the total run time of the job allocation.  If the
requested time limit exceeds the partition's time limit, the job will
be left in a PENDING state (possibly indefinitely).  The default time
limit is the partition's default time limit.  When the time limit is reached,
each task in each job step is sent SIGTERM followed by SIGKILL.  The
interval between signals is specified by the Slurm configuration
parameter \fBKillWait\fR.  The \fBOverTimeLimit\fR configuration parameter may
permit the job to run longer than scheduled.  Time resolution is one minute
and second values are rounded up to the next minute.

A time limit of zero requests that no time limit be imposed.  Acceptable time
formats include "minutes", "minutes:seconds", "hours:minutes:seconds",
"days\-hours", "days\-hours:minutes" and "days\-hours:minutes:seconds".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-time\-min\fR=<\fItime\fR>
Set a minimum time limit on the job allocation.
If specified, the job may have its \fB\-\-time\fR limit lowered to a value
no lower than \fB\-\-time\-min\fR if doing so permits the job to begin
execution earlier than otherwise possible.
The job's time limit will not be changed after the job is allocated resources.
This is performed by a backfill scheduling algorithm to allocate resources
otherwise reserved for higher priority jobs.
Acceptable time formats include "minutes", "minutes:seconds",
"hours:minutes:seconds", "days\-hours", "days\-hours:minutes" and
"days\-hours:minutes:seconds".
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-tmp\fR=<\fIsize\fR>[\fIunits\fR]
Specify a minimum amount of temporary disk space per node.
Default units are megabytes.
Different units can be specified using the suffix [K|M|G|T].
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-uid\fR=<\fIuser\fR>
Attempt to submit and/or run a job as \fIuser\fR instead of the
invoking user id. The invoking user's credentials will be used
to check access permissions for the target partition. This option
is only valid for user root. This option may be used by user root
may use this option to run jobs as a normal user in a RootOnly
partition for example. If run as root, \fBsalloc\fR will drop
its permissions to the uid specified after node allocation is
successful. \fIuser\fR may be the user name or numerical user ID.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Display brief help message and exit.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-use\-min\-nodes\fR
If a range of node counts is given, prefer the smaller count.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase the verbosity of salloc's informational messages.  Multiple
\fB\-v\fR's will further increase salloc's verbosity.  By default only
errors will be displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-wait\-all\-nodes\fR=<\fIvalue\fR>
Controls when the execution of the command begins with respect to when nodes
are ready for use (i.e. booted).
By default, the salloc command will return as soon as the allocation is made.
This default can be altered using the \fBsalloc_wait_nodes\fR option to the
\fBSchedulerParameters\fR parameter in the slurm.conf file.
.IP
.RS
.TP 5
0
Begin execution as soon as allocation can be made.
Do not wait for all nodes to be ready for use (i.e. booted).
.IP

.TP
1
Do not begin execution until all nodes are ready for use.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-wckey\fR=<\fIwckey\fR>
Specify wckey to be used with job.  If TrackWCKey=no (default) in the
slurm.conf this value is ignored.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-x11\fR[={all|first|last}]
Sets up X11 forwarding on "all", "first" or "last" node(s) of the allocation.
This option is only enabled if Slurm was compiled with X11 support and
PrologFlags=x11 is defined in the slurm.conf. Default is "all".
.IP

.SH "PERFORMANCE"
.PP
Executing \fBsalloc\fR sends a remote procedure call to \fBslurmctld\fR. If
enough calls from \fBsalloc\fR or other Slurm client commands that send remote
procedure calls to the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon come in at once, it can result in
a degradation of performance of the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon, possibly resulting
in a denial of service.
.PP
Do not run \fBsalloc\fR or other Slurm client commands that send remote
procedure calls to \fBslurmctld\fR from loops in shell scripts or other
programs. Ensure that programs limit calls to \fBsalloc\fR to the minimum
necessary for the information you are trying to gather.

.SH "INPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Upon startup, salloc will read and handle the options set in the following
environment variables. The majority of these variables are set the same way
the options are set, as defined above. For flag options that are defined to
expect no argument, the option can be enabled by setting the environment
variable without a value (empty or NULL string), the string 'yes', or a
non-zero number. Any other value for the environment variable will result in
the option not being set.
There are a couple exceptions to these rules that are noted below.
.br
\fBNOTE\fR: Command line options always override environment variables settings.

.TP 22
\fBSALLOC_ACCOUNT\fR
Same as \fB\-A, \-\-account\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_ACCTG_FREQ\fR
Same as \fB\-\-acctg\-freq\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_BELL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-bell\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_BURST_BUFFER\fR
Same as \fB\-\-bb\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_CLUSTERS\fR or \fBSLURM_CLUSTERS\fR
Same as \fB\-\-clusters\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_CONSTRAINT\fR
Same as \fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-constraint\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_CONTAINER\fR
Same as \-\-container\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_CORE_SPEC\fR
Same as \fB\-\-core\-spec\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_CPUS_PER_GPU\fR
Same as \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-gpu\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_DEBUG\fR
Same as \fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR. Must be set to 0 or 1 to disable or enable
the option.
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_DELAY_BOOT\fR
Same as \fB\-\-delay\-boot\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_EXCLUSIVE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-exclusive\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GPU_BIND\fR
Same as \fB\-\-gpu\-bind\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GPU_FREQ\fR
Same as \fB\-\-gpu\-freq\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GPUS\fR
Same as \fB\-G, \-\-gpus\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GPUS_PER_NODE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-node\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GPUS_PER_TASK\fR
Same as \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GRES\fR
Same as \fB\-\-gres\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_GRES_FLAGS\fR
Same as \fB\-\-gres\-flags\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_HINT\fR or \fBSLURM_HINT\fR
Same as \fB\-\-hint\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_IMMEDIATE\fR
Same as \fB\-I, \-\-immediate\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_KILL_CMD\fR
Same as \fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-kill\-command\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_MEM_BIND\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_MEM_PER_CPU\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_MEM_PER_GPU\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_MEM_PER_NODE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_NETWORK\fR
Same as \fB\-\-network\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_NO_BELL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-no\-bell\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_NO_KILL\fR
Same as \fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-no\-kill\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_OVERCOMMIT\fR
Same as \fB\-O, \-\-overcommit\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_PARTITION\fR
Same as \fB\-p, \-\-partition\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_POWER\fR
Same as \fB\-\-power\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_PROFILE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-profile\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_QOS\fR
Same as \fB\-\-qos\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_REQ_SWITCH\fR
When a tree topology is used, this defines the maximum count of switches
desired for the job allocation and optionally the maximum time to wait
for that number of switches. See \fB\-\-switches\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_RESERVATION\fR
Same as \fB\-\-reservation\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_SIGNAL\fR
Same as \fB\-\-signal\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_SPREAD_JOB\fR
Same as \fB\-\-spread\-job\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_THREAD_SPEC\fR
Same as \fB\-\-thread\-spec\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_THREADS_PER_CORE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_TIMELIMIT\fR
Same as \fB\-t, \-\-time\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_USE_MIN_NODES\fR
Same as \fB\-\-use\-min\-nodes\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_WAIT_ALL_NODES\fR
Same as \fB\-\-wait\-all\-nodes\fR. Must be set to 0 or 1 to disable or enable
the option.
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_WAIT4SWITCH\fR
Max time waiting for requested switches. See \fB\-\-switches\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSALLOC_WCKEY\fR
Same as \fB\-\-wckey\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR
The location of the Slurm configuration file.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_EXIT_ERROR\fR
Specifies the exit code generated when a Slurm error occurs
(e.g. invalid options).
This can be used by a script to distinguish application exit codes from
various Slurm error conditions.
Also see \fBSLURM_EXIT_IMMEDIATE\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_EXIT_IMMEDIATE\fR
Specifies the exit code generated when the \fB\-\-immediate\fR option
is used and resources are not currently available.
This can be used by a script to distinguish application exit codes from
various Slurm error conditions.
Also see \fBSLURM_EXIT_ERROR\fR.
.IP

.SH "OUTPUT ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
salloc will set the following environment variables in the environment of
the executed program:
.TP
\fBSLURM_*_HET_GROUP_#\fR
For a heterogeneous job allocation, the environment variables are set separately
for each component.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CLUSTER_NAME\fR
Name of the cluster on which the job is executing.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CONTAINER\fR
OCI Bundle for job.
Only set if \fB\-\-container\fR is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CPUS_PER_GPU\fR
Number of CPUs requested per allocated GPU.
Only set if the \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-gpu\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK\fR
Number of CPUs requested per task.
Only set if the \fB\-\-cpus\-per\-task\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_DIST_PLANESIZE\fR
Plane distribution size. Only set for plane distributions.
See \fB\-m, \-\-distribution\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_DISTRIBUTION\fR
Only set if the \fB\-m, \-\-distribution\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_GPU_BIND\fR
Requested binding of tasks to GPU.
Only set if the \fB\-\-gpu\-bind\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_GPU_FREQ\fR
Requested GPU frequency.
Only set if the \fB\-\-gpu\-freq\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_GPUS\fR
Number of GPUs requested.
Only set if the \fB\-G, \-\-gpus\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_GPUS_PER_NODE\fR
Requested GPU count per allocated node.
Only set if the \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-node\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_GPUS_PER_SOCKET\fR
Requested GPU count per allocated socket.
Only set if the \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-socket\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_GPUS_PER_TASK\fR
Requested GPU count per allocated task.
Only set if the \fB\-\-gpus\-per\-task\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_HET_SIZE\fR
Set to count of components in heterogeneous job.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_ACCOUNT\fR
Account name associated of the job allocation.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_ID\fR
The ID of the job allocation.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_CPUS_PER_NODE\fR
Count of CPUs available to the job on the nodes in the allocation, using the
format \fICPU_count\fR[(x\fInumber_of_nodes\fR)][,\fICPU_count\fR
[(x\fInumber_of_nodes\fR)] ...].
For example: SLURM_JOB_CPUS_PER_NODE='72(x2),36' indicates that on the
first and second nodes (as listed by SLURM_JOB_NODELIST) the allocation
has 72 CPUs, while the third node has 36 CPUs.
\fBNOTE\fR: The \fBselect/linear\fR plugin allocates entire nodes to jobs, so
the value indicates the total count of CPUs on allocated nodes. The
\fBselect/cons_res\fR and \fBselect/cons_tres\fR plugins allocate individual
CPUs to jobs, so this number indicates the number of CPUs allocated to the job.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_GPUS\fR
The global GPU IDs of the GPUs allocated to this job. The GPU IDs are not
relative to any device cgroup, even if devices are constrained with task/cgroup.
Only set in batch and interactive jobs.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_NODELIST\fR
List of nodes allocated to the job.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_NUM_NODES\fR
Total number of nodes in the job allocation.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_PARTITION\fR
Name of the partition in which the job is running.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_QOS\fR
Quality Of Service (QOS) of the job allocation.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOB_RESERVATION\fR
Advanced reservation containing the job allocation, if any.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_JOBID\fR
The ID of the job allocation. See \fBSLURM_JOB_ID\fR. Included for backwards
compatibility.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND\fR
Set to value of the \fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_LIST\fR
Set to bit mask used for memory binding.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_PREFER\fR
Set to "prefer" if the \fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR option includes the prefer option.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_SORT\fR
Sort free cache pages (run zonesort on Intel KNL nodes)
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_TYPE\fR
Set to the memory binding type specified with the \fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR option.
Possible values are "none", "rank", "map_map", "mask_mem" and "local".
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_BIND_VERBOSE\fR
Set to "verbose" if the \fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR option includes the verbose option.
Set to "quiet" otherwise.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_PER_CPU\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem\-per\-cpu\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_PER_GPU\fR
Requested memory per allocated GPU.
Only set if the \fB\-\-mem\-per\-gpu\fR option is specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_MEM_PER_NODE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-mem\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NNODES\fR
Total number of nodes in the job allocation. See \fBSLURM_JOB_NUM_NODES\fR.
Included for backwards compatibility.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NODELIST\fR
List of nodes allocated to the job. See \fBSLURM_JOB_NODELIST\fR. Included
for backwards compabitility.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NODE_ALIASES\fR
Sets of node name, communication address and hostname for nodes allocated to
the job from the cloud. Each element in the set if colon separated and each
set is comma separated. For example:
SLURM_NODE_ALIASES=ec0:1.2.3.4:foo,ec1:1.2.3.5:bar
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NTASKS\fR
Same as \fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-ntasks\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NTASKS_PER_CORE\fR
Set to value of the \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-core\fR option, if specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NTASKS_PER_GPU\fR
Set to value of the \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-gpu\fR option, if specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NTASKS_PER_NODE\fR
Set to value of the \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-node\fR option, if specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_NTASKS_PER_SOCKET\fR
Set to value of the \fB\-\-ntasks\-per\-socket\fR option, if specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_OVERCOMMIT\fR
Set to \fB1\fR if \fB\-\-overcommit\fR was specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_PROFILE\fR
Same as \fB\-\-profile\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_SUBMIT_DIR\fR
The directory from which \fBsalloc\fR was invoked or, if applicable, the
directory specified by the \fB\-D, \-\-chdir\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_SUBMIT_HOST\fR
The hostname of the computer from which \fBsalloc\fR was invoked.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE\fR
Number of tasks to be initiated on each node. Values are
comma separated and in the same order as SLURM_JOB_NODELIST.
If two or more consecutive nodes are to have the same task
count, that count is followed by "(x#)" where "#" is the
repetition count. For example, "SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE=2(x3),1"
indicates that the first three nodes will each execute two
tasks and the fourth node will execute one task.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_THREADS_PER_CORE\fR
This is only set if \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR or
\fBSALLOC_THREADS_PER_CORE\fR were specified. The value will be set to the
value specified by \fB\-\-threads\-per\-core\fR or
\fBSALLOC_THREADS_PER_CORE\fR. This is used by subsequent srun calls within the
job allocation.
.IP

.SH "SIGNALS"
.LP
While salloc is waiting for a PENDING job allocation, most signals will cause
salloc to revoke the allocation request and exit.

However if the allocation has been granted and salloc has already started the
specified command, then salloc will ignore most signals.
salloc will not exit or release the allocation until the command exits.
One notable exception is SIGHUP. A SIGHUP signal will cause salloc to
release the allocation and exit without waiting for the command to finish.
Another exception is SIGTERM, which will be forwarded to the spawned process.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP
To get an allocation, and open a new xterm in which srun commands may be typed \
interactively:
.IP

.nf
$ salloc \-N16 xterm
salloc: Granted job allocation 65537
# (at this point the xterm appears, and salloc waits for xterm to exit)
salloc: Relinquishing job allocation 65537
.fi

.TP
To grab an allocation of nodes and launch a parallel application on one \
command line:
.IP

.nf
$ salloc \-N5 srun \-n10 myprogram
.fi

.TP
To create a heterogeneous job with 3 components, each allocating a unique set \
of nodes:
.IP
.nf
$ salloc \-w node[2\-3] : \-w node4 : \-w node[5\-7] bash
salloc: job 32294 queued and waiting for resources
salloc: job 32294 has been allocated resources
salloc: Granted job allocation 32294
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2006\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.br
Copyright (C) 2008\-2010 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
.br
Copyright (C) 2010\-2022 SchedMD LLC.
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBsinfo\fR(1), \fBsattach\fR(1), \fBsbatch\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1), \fBscancel\fR(1), \fBscontrol\fR(1),
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBsched_setaffinity\fR (2), \fBnuma\fR (3)
