.TH scontrol "1" "Slurm Commands" "March 2022" "Slurm Commands"

.SH "NAME"
scontrol \- view or modify Slurm configuration and state.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBscontrol\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] [\fICOMMAND\fR...]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBscontrol\fR is used to view or modify Slurm configuration including: job,
job step, node, partition, reservation, and overall system configuration. Most
of the commands can only be executed by user root or an Administrator. If an
attempt to view or modify configuration information is made by an unauthorized
user, an error message will be printed and the requested action will not occur.
If no command is entered on the execute line, \fBscontrol\fR will operate in an
interactive mode and prompt for input. It will continue prompting for input and
executing commands until explicitly terminated. If a command is entered on the
execute line, \fBscontrol\fR will execute that command and terminate. All
commands and options are case\-insensitive, although node names, partition
names, and reservation names are case\-sensitive (node names "LX" and "lx" are
distinct). All commands and options can be abbreviated to the extent that the
specification is unique. A modified Slurm configuration can be written to
a file using the \fIscontrol write config\fR command. The resulting file
will be named using the convention "slurm.conf.<datetime>" and located in the
same directory as the original "slurm.conf" file. The directory containing
the original slurm.conf must be writable for this to occur.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
When the \fIshow\fR command is used, then display all partitions, their jobs
and jobs steps. This causes information to be displayed about partitions
that are configured as hidden and partitions that are unavailable to user's
group.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-clusters\fR=<\fIstring\fR>
The cluster to issue commands to. Only one cluster name may be specified.
Note that the SlurmDBD must be up for this option to work properly.
This option implicitly sets the \fB\-\-local\fR option.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-details\fR
Causes the \fIshow\fR command to provide additional details where available.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-federation\fR
Report jobs from federation if a member of one.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-future\fR
Report nodes in FUTURE state.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of scontrol.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-hide\fR
Do not display information about hidden partitions, their jobs and job steps.
By default, neither partitions that are configured as hidden nor those partitions
unavailable to user's group will be displayed (i.e. this is the default behavior).
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-local\fR
Show only information local to this cluster. Ignore other clusters in the
federated if a member of one. Overrides \-\-federation.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-oneliner\fR
Print information one line per record.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print no warning or informational messages, only fatal error messages.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-\-sibling\fR
Show all sibling jobs on a federated cluster. Implies \-\-federation.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uid\fR=<\fIuid\fR>
Attempt to update a job as user <uid> instead of the invoking user id.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print detailed event logging. Multiple \fB\-v\fR's will further increase
the verbosity of logging. By default only errors will be displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fB\-V\fR , \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version information and exit.
.IP

.SH "COMMANDS"

.TP
\fBabort\fR
Instruct the Slurm controller to terminate immediately and generate a core file.
See "man slurmctld" for information about where the core file will be
written.
.IP

.TP
\fBcancel_reboot\fR <\fINodeList\fR>
Cancel pending reboots on nodes. The node will be undrain'ed and the reason
cleared if the node was drained by an ASAP reboot.
.IP

.TP
\fBcluster\fR <\fICLUSTER_NAME\fR>
The cluster to issue commands to. Only one cluster name may be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBcreate\fR <\fISPECIFICATION\fR>
Create a new partition or reservation.  See the full list of parameters
below.  Include the tag "res" to create a reservation without specifying
a reservation name.
.IP

.TP
\fBcompleting\fR
Display all jobs in a COMPLETING state along with associated nodes in either a
COMPLETING or DOWN state.
.IP

.TP
\fBdelete\fR <\fISPECIFICATION\fR>
Delete the entry with the specified \fISPECIFICATION\fP.
The two \fISPECIFICATION\fP choices are \fIPartitionName=<name>\fP and
\fIReservation=<name>\fP. Reservations and partitions should have
no associated jobs at the time of their deletion (modify the jobs first).
If the specified partition is in use, the request is denied.
.IP

.TP
\fBerrnumstr\fR <\fIERRNO\fP>
Given a Slurm error number, return a descriptive string.
.IP

.TP
\fBfsdampeningfactor\fR <\fIFACTOR\fR>
Set the FairShareDampeningFactor in slurmctld.
.IP

.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Display a description of scontrol options and commands.
.IP

.TP
\fBhold\fR <\fIjob_list\fR>
Prevent a pending job from being started (sets its priority to 0).
Use the \fIrelease\fP command to permit the job to be scheduled.
The job_list argument is a comma separated list of job IDs OR
"jobname=" with the job's name, which will attempt to hold all jobs having
that name.
Note that when a job is held by a system administrator using the \fBhold\fP
command, only a system administrator may release the job for execution (also
see the \fBuhold\fP command). When the job is held by its owner, it may also
be released by the job's owner.
Additionally, attempting to hold a running job will have not suspend or cancel
it. But, it will set the job priority to 0 and update the job reason field,
which would hold the job if it was requeued at a later time.
.IP

.TP
\fBnotify\fR <\fIjob_id\fR> <\fImessage\fR>
Send a message to standard error of the salloc or srun command or batch job
associated with the specified \fIjob_id\fP.
.IP

.TP
\fBpidinfo\fR <\fIproc_id\fR>
Print the Slurm job id and scheduled termination time corresponding to the
supplied process id, \fIproc_id\fP, on the current node.  This will work only
with processes on node on which scontrol is run, and only for those processes
spawned by Slurm and their descendants.
.IP

.TP
\fBlistpids\fR [<\fIjob_id\fR>[.<\fIstep_id\fR>]] [<\fINodeName\fR>]
Print a listing of the process IDs in a job step (if JOBID.STEPID is provided),
or all of the job steps in a job (if \fIjob_id\fP is provided), or all of the job
steps in all of the jobs on the local node (if \fIjob_id\fP is not provided
or \fIjob_id\fP is "*").  This will work only with processes on the node on
which scontrol is run, and only for those processes spawned by Slurm and
their descendants. Note that some Slurm configurations
(\fIProctrackType\fP value of \fIpgid\fP)
are unable to identify all processes associated with a job or job step.

Note that the NodeName option is only really useful when you have multiple
slurmd daemons running on the same host machine.  Multiple slurmd daemons on
one host are, in general, only used by Slurm developers.
.IP

.TP
\fBping\fR
Ping the primary and secondary slurmctld daemon and report if
they are responding.
.IP

.TP
\fBreboot\fR [ASAP] [nextstate={RESUME|DOWN}] [reason=<\fIreason\fR>] {ALL|\
<\fINodeList\fR>}
Reboot the nodes in the system when they become idle using the
\fBRebootProgram\fP as configured in Slurm's slurm.conf file.
Each node will have the "REBOOT" flag added to its node state.
After a node reboots and the slurmd daemon starts up again, the
HealthCheckProgram will run once. Then, the slurmd daemon will register
itself with the slurmctld daemon and the "REBOOT" flag will be cleared.
The node's "DRAIN" state flag will be cleared if the reboot was "ASAP",
nextstate=resume or down.
The "ASAP" option adds the "DRAIN" flag to each node's state, preventing
additional jobs from running on the node so it can be
rebooted and returned to service "As Soon As Possible" (i.e. ASAP).
"ASAP" will also set the node reason to "Reboot ASAP" if the "reason" option
isn't specified.
If the "nextstate" option is specified
as "DOWN", then the node will remain in a down state after rebooting. If
"nextstate" is specified as "RESUME", then the nodes will resume as normal
and the node's reason and "DRAIN" state will be cleared.
Resuming nodes will be considered as available in
backfill future scheduling and won't be replaced by idle nodes in a reservation.
The "reason" option sets each node's reason to a user\-defined message.
A default reason of "reboot requested" is set if no other reason is set on the
node.
The reason will be appended with: "reboot issued" when the reboot is issued;
"reboot complete" when the node registers and has a "nextstate" of "DOWN"; or
"reboot timed out" when the node fails to register within \fBResumeTimeout\fR.
You must specify either a list of nodes or that ALL nodes are to be rebooted.
NOTE: By default, this command does not prevent additional jobs from being
scheduled on any nodes before reboot.
To do this, you can either use the "ASAP" option or explicitly drain the nodes
beforehand.
You can alternately create an advanced reservation to
prevent additional jobs from being initiated on nodes to be rebooted.
Pending reboots can be cancelled by using "scontrol cancel_reboot <node>" or
setting the node state to "CANCEL_REBOOT".
A node will be marked "DOWN" if it doesn't reboot within \fBResumeTimeout\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBreconfigure\fR
Instruct all Slurm daemons to re\-read the configuration file.
This command does not restart the daemons.
This mechanism can be used to modify configuration parameters set in
slurm.conf.
The Slurm controller (slurmctld) forwards the request to all other daemons
(slurmd daemon on each compute node). Running jobs continue execution.
Most configuration parameters can be changed by just running this command;
however, there are parameters that require a restart of the relevant Slurm
daemons. Parameters requiring a restart will be noted in the
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5) man page. The slurmctld daemon and all slurmd daemons
must also be restarted if nodes are added to or removed from the cluster.
.IP

.TP
\fBrelease\fR <\fIjob_list\fR>
Release a previously held job to begin execution.
The job_list argument is a comma separated list of job IDs OR
"jobname=" with the job's name, which will attempt to hold all jobs having
that name.
Also see \fBhold\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBrequeue\fR  [<\fIoption\fR>] <\fIjob_list\fR>
Requeue a running, suspended or finished Slurm batch job into pending state.
The job_list argument is a comma separated list of job IDs.
The command accepts the following option:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBIncomplete\fR
Operate only on jobs (or tasks of a job array) which have not completed.
Specifically only jobs in the following states will be requeued:
CONFIGURING, RUNNING, STOPPED or SUSPENDED.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBrequeuehold\fR [<\fIoption\fR>] <\fIjob_list\fR>
Requeue a running, suspended or finished Slurm batch job into pending state,
moreover the job is put in held state (priority zero).
The job_list argument is a comma separated list of job IDs.
A held job can be released using scontrol to reset its priority (e.g.
"scontrol release <job_id>"). The command accepts the following options:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBIncomplete\fR
Operate only on jobs (or tasks of a job array) which have not completed.
Specifically only jobs in the following states will be requeued:
CONFIGURING, RUNNING, STOPPED or SUSPENDED.
.IP

.TP
\fBState\fR=SpecialExit
The "SpecialExit" keyword specifies that the job
has to be put in a special state \fBJOB_SPECIAL_EXIT\fP.
The "scontrol show job" command will display the JobState as
\fBSPECIAL_EXIT\fP, while the "squeue" command as \fBSE\fP.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBresume\fR <\fIjob_list\fR>
Resume a previously suspended job.
The job_list argument is a comma separated list of job IDs.
Also see \fBsuspend\fR.

\fBNOTE:\fR A suspended job releases its CPUs for allocation to other jobs.
Resuming a previously suspended job may result in multiple jobs being
allocated the same CPUs, which could trigger gang scheduling with some
configurations or severe degradation in performance with other configurations.
Use of the scancel command to send SIGSTOP and SIGCONT signals would stop a
job without releasing its CPUs for allocation to other jobs and would be a
preferable mechanism in many cases.
If performing system maintenance you may want to use suspend/resume in the
following way. Before suspending set all nodes to draining or set all
partitions to down so that no new jobs can be scheduled. Then suspend
jobs. Once maintenance is done resume jobs then resume nodes and/or set all
partitions back to up.
Use with caution.
.IP

.TP
\fBschedloglevel\fR <\fILEVEL\fR>
Enable or disable scheduler logging.
\fILEVEL\fP may be "0", "1", "disable" or "enable". "0" has the same
effect as "disable". "1" has the same effect as "enable".
This value is temporary and will be overwritten when the slurmctld
daemon reads the slurm.conf configuration file (e.g. when the daemon
is restarted or \fBscontrol reconfigure\fR is executed) if the
SlurmSchedLogLevel parameter is present.
.IP

.TP
\fBsetdebug\fR <\fILEVEL\fR>
Change the debug level of the slurmctld daemon for all active logging channels
not originally configured off (quiet).
\fILEVEL\fP may be an integer value between zero and nine (using the
same values as \fISlurmctldDebug\fP in the \fIslurm.conf\fP file) or
the name of the most detailed message type to be printed:
"quiet", "fatal", "error", "info", "verbose", "debug", "debug2", "debug3",
"debug4", or "debug5".
This value is temporary and will be overwritten whenever the slurmctld
daemon reads the slurm.conf configuration file (e.g. when the daemon
is restarted or \fBscontrol reconfigure\fR is executed).
.IP

.TP
\fBsetdebugflags\fR [+|\-]<\fIFLAG\fR>
Add or remove DebugFlags of the slurmctld daemon.
See "man slurm.conf" for a list of supported DebugFlags.
NOTE: Changing the value of some DebugFlags will have no effect without
restarting the slurmctld daemon, which would set DebugFlags based upon the
contents of the slurm.conf configuration file.
.IP

.TP
\fBshow\fR <\fIENTITY\fR>[=<\fIID\fR>] or <\fIENTITY\fR> [<\fIID\fR>]
Display the state of the specified entity with the specified identification.
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBaliases\fR
Returns all \fINodeName\fP values associated with a given \fINodeHostname\fP
(useful to get the list of virtual nodes associated with a
real node in a configuration where multiple slurmd daemons execute on a single
compute node).
.IP

.TP
\fBassoc_mgr\fR
Displays the current contents of the slurmctld's internal cache
for users, associations and/or qos. The output can be filtered by different
record types:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBusers\fR=<\fIuser1\fR>[...,<\fIuserN\fR>]
Limit the User Records displayed to those with the specified user name(s).
.IP

.TP
\fBaccounts\fR=<\fIacct1\fR>[...,<\fIacctN\fR>]
Limit the Association Records displayed to those with the specified account
name(s).
.IP

.TP
\fBqos\fR=<\fIqos1\fR>[...,<\fIqosN\fR>]
Limit the QOS Records displayed to those with the specified QOS name(s).
.IP

.TP
\fBflags\fR={users|assoc|qos}
Specify the desired record type to be displayed. If no flags are specified,
all record types are displayed.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBbbstat\fR
Displays output from Cray's burst buffer status tool. Options following
\fBbbstat\fR are passed directly to the dwstat command by the slurmctld daemon
and the response returned to the user. Equivalent to \fBdwstat\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBburstbuffer\fR
Displays the current status of the BurstBuffer plugin.
.IP

.TP
\fBconfig\fR
Displays parameter names from the configuration files in mixed
case (e.g. SlurmdPort=7003) while derived parameters names are in upper case
only (e.g. SLURM_VERSION).
.IP

.TP
\fBdaemons\fR
Reports which daemons should be running on this node.
.IP

.TP
\fBdwstat\fR
Displays output from Cray's burst buffer status tool. Options following
\fBdwstat\fR are passed directly to the dwstat command by the slurmctld daemon
and the response returned to the user. Equivalent to \fBbbstat\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBfederation\fR
The federation name that the controller is part of and the
sibling clusters part of the federation will be listed.
.IP

.TP
\fBfrontend\fR
Shows configured frontend nodes.
.IP

.TP
\fBhostlist\fR
Takes a list of host names and prints the hostlist
expression for them (the inverse of \fBhostnames\fR).
\fBhostlist\fR can also take the absolute pathname of a file
(beginning with the character '/') containing a list of hostnames.
Multiple node names may be specified using simple node range expressions
(e.g. "lx[10\-20]"). All other \fIID\fP values must identify a single
element. The job step ID is of the form "job_id.step_id", (e.g. "1234.1").
\fBslurmd\fR reports the current status of the slurmd daemon executing
on the same node from which the scontrol command is executed (the
local host). It can be useful to diagnose problems.
By default \fBhostlist\fR does not sort the node list or make it
unique (e.g. tux2,tux1,tux2 = tux[2,1\-2]).  If you wanted a sorted
list use \fBhostlistsorted\fR (e.g. tux2,tux1,tux2 = tux[1\-2,2]).
By default, all elements of the entity type specified are printed.
.IP

.TP
\fBhostlistsorted\fR
Takes a list of host names and prints a sorted, unique hostlist
expression for them. See \fBhostlist\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBhostnames\fR
Takes an optional hostlist expression as input and
writes a list of individual host names to standard output (one per
line). If no hostlist expression is supplied, the contents of the
SLURM_JOB_NODELIST environment variable is used. For example "tux[1\-3]"
is mapped to "tux1","tux2" and "tux3" (one hostname per line).
.IP

.TP
\fBjob\fR
Displays statistics about all jobs by default. If an optional jobid is
specified, details for just that job will be displayed.
If the job does not specify socket\-per\-node, cores\-per\-socket or
threads\-per\-core then it will display '*' in the ReqS:C:T=*:*:* field.
.IP

.TP
\fBlicenses\fR
Displays statistics about all configured licenses (local and remote) by
default. If an optional license name is specified, details for just that
license will be displayed.

.TP
\fBnode\fR
Displays statistics about all nodes by default. If an optional nodename is
specified, details for just that node will be displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fBpartition\fR
Displays statistics about all partitions by default. If an optional partition
name is specified, details for just that partition will be displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fBreservation\fR
Displays statistics about all reservations by default. If an optional
reservation name is specified, details for just that reservation will be
displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fBslurmd\fR
Displays statistics for the slurmd running on the current node.
.IP

.TP
\fBstep\fR
Displays statistics about all job steps by default. If an optional jobid
is specified, details about steps for just that job will be displayed.
If a jobid.stepid is specified, details for just that step will be displayed.
.IP

.TP
\fBtopology\fR
Displays information about the defined topology layout. If a switch is
specified, information about that switch will be shown.
If one node name is specified, all switches connected to that node (and
their parent switches) will be shown.
If more than one node name is specified, only switches that connect to all
named nodes will be shown.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBshutdown\fR <\fIOPTION\fR>
Instruct Slurm daemons to save current state and terminate.
By default, the Slurm controller (slurmctld) forwards the request all
other daemons (slurmd daemon on each compute node).
An \fIOPTION\fP of \fIslurmctld\fP or \fIcontroller\fP results in
only the slurmctld daemon being shutdown and the slurmd daemons
remaining active.
.IP

.TP
\fBsuspend\fR <\fIjob_list\fR>
Suspend a running job.
The job_list argument is a comma separated list of job IDs.
Use the \fIresume\fP command to resume its execution.
User processes must stop on receipt of SIGSTOP signal and resume
upon receipt of SIGCONT for this operation to be effective.
Not all architectures and configurations support job suspension.
If a suspended job is requeued, it will be placed in a held state.
The time a job is suspended will not count against a job's time limit.
Only an operator, administrator, SlurmUser, or root can suspend jobs.
.IP

.TP
\fBtakeover\fR [<\fIINDEX\fR>]
Instruct one of Slurm's backup controllers (slurmctld) to take over system
control. By default the first backup controller (INDEX=1) requests control
from the primary and waits for its termination. After that, it switches from
backup mode to controller mode. If primary controller can not be contacted, it
directly switches to controller mode. This can be used to speed up the Slurm
controller fail\-over mechanism when the primary node is down.
This can be used to minimize disruption if the computer executing the
primary Slurm controller is scheduled down.
(Note: Slurm's primary controller will take the control back at startup.)
.IP

.TP
\fBtop\fR <\fIjob_list\fR>
Move the specified job IDs to the top of the queue of jobs belonging to the
identical user ID, partition name, account, and QOS.
The job_list argument is a comma separated ordered list of job IDs.
Any job not matching \fBall\fP of those fields will not be effected.
Only jobs submitted to a single partition will be effected.
This operation changes the order of jobs by adjusting job nice values.
The net effect on that user's throughput will be negligible to slightly negative.
This operation is disabled by default for non\-privileged (non\-operator, admin,
SlurmUser, or root) users. This operation may be enabled for non\-privileged
users by the system administrator by including the option "enable_user_top" in
the SchedulerParameters configuration parameter.
.IP

.TP
\fBtoken\fR [lifespan=<\fIlifespan\fR>] [username=<\fIusername\fR>]
Return an auth token which can be used to support JWT authentication if
\fIAuthAltTypes=auth/jwt\fP has been enabled on the system.
Supports two optional arguments. \fBlifespan=\fP may be used to specify the
token's lifespan in seconds. \fBusername\fP (only available to SlurmUser/root)
may be used to request a token for a different username.
.IP

.TP
\fBuhold\fR <\fIjob_list\fR>
Prevent a pending job from being started (sets its priority to 0).
The job_list argument is a space separated list of job IDs or job names.
Use the \fIrelease\fP command to permit the job to be scheduled.
This command is designed for a system administrator to hold a job so that
the job owner may release it rather than requiring the intervention of a
system administrator (also see the \fBhold\fP command).
.IP

.TP
\fBupdate\fR <\fISPECIFICATION\fR>
Update job, step, node, partition, or reservation configuration per
the supplied specification. \fISPECIFICATION\fP is in the same format as the
Slurm configuration file and the output of the \fIshow\fP command described 
above. It may be desirable to execute the \fIshow\fP command (described above)
on the specific entity you want to update, then use cut\-and\-paste tools to
enter updated configuration values to the \fIupdate\fP. Note that while most
configuration values can be changed using this command, not all can be changed
using this mechanism. In particular, the hardware configuration of a node or
the physical addition or removal of nodes from the cluster may only be
accomplished through editing the Slurm configuration file and executing
the \fIreconfigure\fP command (described above).
.IP

.TP
\fBversion\fR
Display the version number of scontrol being executed.
.IP

.TP
\fBwait_job\fR <\fIjob_id\fR>
Wait until a job and all of its nodes are ready for use or the job has entered
some termination state. This option is particularly useful in the Slurm Prolog
or in the batch script itself if nodes are powered down and restarted
automatically as needed.

\fBNOTE\fP: Don't use scontrol wait_job in PrologSlurmctld or Prolog with
PrologFlags=Alloc as this will result in a deadlock.
.IP

\fBNOTE\fR: When using \fBwait_job\fR for an array job, use the
\fBSLURM_JOB_ID\fR environment variable to reference the job rather than the
\fBSLURM_ARRAY_JOB_ID\fR variable.

.TP
\fBwrite batch_script\fR <\fIjob_id\fR> [<\fIoptional_filename\fR>]
Write the batch script for a given job_id to a file or to stdout. The file will
default to \fIslurm\-\<job_id\>.sh\fP if the optional filename argument is not
given. The script will be written to stdout if \- is given instead of a filename.
The batch script can only be retrieved by an admin or operator, or by the
owner of the job.
.IP

.TP
\fBwrite config\fR <\fIoptional_filename\fR>
Write the current configuration to a file with the naming convention of
"slurm.conf.<datetime>" in the same directory as the original slurm.conf
file.  If a filename is given that file location with a .<datetime> suffix is
created.
.IP

.SH "INTERACTIVE COMMANDS"
\fBNOTE:\fP
All commands listed below can be used in the interactive mode, but \fINOT\fP
on the initial command line.

.TP
\fBall\fR
Show all partitions, their jobs and jobs steps. This causes information to be
displayed about partitions that are configured as hidden and partitions that
are unavailable to user's group.
.IP

.TP
\fBdetails\fR
Causes the \fIshow\fP command to provide additional details where available.
Job information will include CPUs and NUMA memory allocated on each node.
Note that on computers with hyperthreading enabled and Slurm configured to
allocate cores, each listed CPU represents one physical core.
Each hyperthread on that core can be allocated a separate task, so a job's
CPU count and task count may differ.
See the \fB\-\-cpu\-bind\fR and \fB\-\-mem\-bind\fR option descriptions in
srun man pages for more information.
The \fBdetails\fP option is currently only supported for the \fIshow job\fP
command.
.IP

.TP
\fBexit\fR
Terminate scontrol interactive session.
.IP

.TP
\fBhide\fR
Do not display partition, job or jobs step information for partitions that are
configured as hidden or partitions that are unavailable to the user's group.
This is the default behavior.
.IP

.TP
\fBoneliner\fR
Print information one line per record.
.IP

.TP
\fBquiet\fR
Print no warning or informational messages, only fatal error messages.
.IP

.TP
\fBquit\fR
Terminate the execution of scontrol.
.IP

.TP
\fBverbose\fR
Print detailed event logging.
This includes time\-stamps on data structures, record counts, etc.
.IP

.TP
\fB!!\fR
Repeat the last command executed.
.IP

.SH "JOBS \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE COMMAND"
Note that update requests done by either root, SlurmUser or Administrators are
not subject to certain restrictions. For instance, if an Administrator changes
the QOS on a pending job, certain limits such as the TimeLimit will not be
changed automatically as changes made by the Administrators are allowed to
violate these restrictions.

.TP
\fBAccount\fR=<\fIaccount\fR>
Account name to be changed for this job's resource use.
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "Account=".
.IP

.TP
\fBAdminComment\fR=<\fIspec\fR>
Arbitrary descriptive string. Can only be set by a Slurm administrator.
.IP

.TP
\fBArrayTaskThrottle\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Specify the maximum number of tasks in a job array that can execute at
the same time.
Set the count to zero in order to eliminate any limit.
The task throttle count for a job array is reported as part of its ArrayTaskId
field, preceded with a percent sign.
For example "ArrayTaskId=1\-10%2" indicates the maximum number of running tasks
is limited to 2.
.IP

.TP
\fBBurstBuffer\fR=<\fIspec\fR>
Burst buffer specification to be changed for this job's resource use.
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "BurstBuffer=".
Format is burst buffer plugin specific.
.IP

.TP
\fBClusters\fR=<\fIspec\fR>
Specifies the clusters that the federated job can run on.
.IP

.TP
\fBClusterFeatures\fR=<\fIspec\fR>
Specifies features that a federated cluster must have to have a sibling job
submitted to it. Slurm will attempt to submit a sibling job to a cluster if it
has at least one of the specified features.
.IP

.TP
\fBComment\fR=<\fIspec\fR>
Arbitrary descriptive string.
.IP

.TP
\fBContiguous\fR={yes|no}
Set the job's requirement for contiguous (consecutive) nodes to be allocated.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO".
Only the Slurm administrator or root can change this parameter.
.IP

.TP
\fBCoreSpec\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Number of cores to reserve per node for system use.
The job will be charged for these cores, but be unable to use them.
Will be reported as "*" if not constrained.
.IP

.TP
\fBCPUsPerTask\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Change the CPUsPerTask job's value.
.IP

.TP
\fBDeadline\fR=<\fItime_spec\fR>
It accepts times of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR to specify a deadline to a job at
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, \fIfika\fR (3 PM) or
\fIteatime\fR (4 PM) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for a deadline in the morning or the evening.
You can specify a deadline for the job with
a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR or \fIMM.DD.YY\fR,
or a date and time as \fIYYYY\-MM\-DD[THH:MM[:SS]]\fR.  You can also
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIseconds\fR (default), \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR, \fIdays\fR,
or \fIweeks\fR and you can tell Slurm to put a deadline for tomorrow with
the keyword \fItomorrow\fR.
The specified deadline must be later than the current time.
Only pending jobs can have the deadline updated.
Only the Slurm administrator or root can change this parameter.
.IP

.TP
\fBDelayBoot\fR=<\fItime_spec\fR>
Change the time to decide whether to reboot nodes in order to satisfy job's
feature specification if the job has been eligible to run for less than this
time period. See salloc/sbatch man pages option \-\-delay\-boot.
.IP

.TP
\fBDependency\fR=<\fIdependency_list\fR>
Defer job's initiation until specified job dependency specification
is satisfied.
Cancel dependency with an empty dependency_list (e.g. "Dependency=").
<\fIdependency_list\fR> is of the form
<\fItype:job_id[:job_id][,type:job_id[:job_id]]\fR>.
Many jobs can share the same dependency and these jobs may even belong to
different  users.
.IP
.PD
.RS
.TP
\fBafter:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have begun
execution or been canceled.
.IP

.TP
\fBafterany:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated.
.IP

.TP
\fBafternotok:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have terminated
in some failed state (non\-zero exit code, node failure, timed out, etc).
.IP

.TP
\fBafterok:job_id[:jobid...]\fR
This job can begin execution after the specified jobs have successfully
executed (ran to completion with an exit code of zero).
.IP

.TP
\fBsingleton\fR
This job can begin execution after any previously launched jobs
sharing the same job name and user have terminated.
In other words, only one job by that name and owned by that user can be running
or suspended at any point in time.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBEligibleTime\fR=<\fItime_spec\fR>
See \fIStartTime\fP.
.IP

.TP
\fBEndTime\fR
The time the job is expected to terminate based on the job's time
limit.  When the job ends sooner, this field will be updated with the
actual end time.
.IP

.TP
\fBExcNodeList\fR=<\fInodes\fR>
Set the job's list of excluded node. Multiple node names may be
specified using simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10\-20]").
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "ExcNodeList=".
.IP

.TP
\fBFeatures\fR=<\fIfeatures\fR>
Set the job's required node features.
The list of features may include multiple feature names separated
by ampersand (AND) and/or vertical bar (OR) operators.
For example: \fBFeatures="opteron&video"\fR or \fBFeatures="fast|faster"\fR.
In the first example, only nodes having both the feature "opteron" AND
the feature "video" will be used.
There is no mechanism to specify that you want one node with feature
"opteron" and another node with feature "video" in case no
node has both features.
If only one of a set of possible options should be used for all allocated
nodes, then use the OR operator and enclose the options within square brackets.
For example: "\fBFeatures=[rack1|rack2|rack3|rack4]"\fR might
be used to specify that all nodes must be allocated on a single rack of
the cluster, but any of those four racks can be used.
A request can also specify the number of nodes needed with some feature
by appending an asterisk and count after the feature name.
For example "\fBFeatures=graphics*4"\fR
indicates that at least four allocated nodes must have the feature "graphics."
Parenthesis are also supported for features to be ANDed together.
For example "\fBFeatures=[(knl&a2a&flat)*4&haswell*2]"\fR indicates the
resource allocation should include 4 nodes with ALL of the features "knl",
"a2a", and "flat" plus 2 nodes with the feature "haswell".
Constraints with node counts may only be combined with AND operators.
Value may be cleared with blank data value, for example "Features=".
.IP

.TP
\fBGres\fR=<\fIlist\fR>
Specifies a comma\-delimited list of generic consumable resources.
The format of each entry on the list is "name[:count[*cpu]]".
The name is that of the consumable resource.
The count is the number of those resources with a default value of 1.
The specified resources will be allocated to the job on each node
allocated unless "*cpu" is appended, in which case the resources
will be allocated on a per cpu basis.
The available generic consumable resources is configurable by the system
administrator.
A list of available generic consumable resources will be printed and the
command will exit if the option argument is "help".
Examples of use include "Gres=gpus:2*cpu,disk=40G" and "Gres=help".
.IP

.TP
\fBJobId\fR=<\fIjob_list\fR>
Identify the job(s) to be updated.
The job_list may be a comma separated list of job IDs.
Either \fIJobId\fP or \fIJobName\fP is required.
.IP

.TP
\fBLicenses\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Specification of licenses (or other resources available on all nodes
of the cluster) as described in salloc/sbatch/srun man pages.
.IP

.TP
\fBMailType\fR=<\fItypes\fR>
Set the mail event types. Valid type values are NONE, BEGIN, END, FAIL,
REQUEUE, ALL (equivalent to BEGIN, END, FAIL, REQUEUE, and STAGE_OUT),
STAGE_OUT (burst buffer stage out and teardown completed), TIME_LIMIT,
TIME_LIMIT_90 (reached 90 percent of time limit), TIME_LIMIT_80 (reached 80
percent of time limit), TIME_LIMIT_50 (reached 50 percent of time limit) and
ARRAY_TASKS (send emails for each array task). Multiple type values may be
specified in a comma separated list. Unless the ARRAY_TASKS option is
specified, mail notifications on job BEGIN, END and FAIL apply to a job array
as a whole rather than generating individual email messages for each task in
the job array.
.IP

.TP
\fBMailUser\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Set the user to receive email notification of state changes. A blank string
will set the mail user to the default which is the submitting user.
.IP

.TP
\fBMinCPUsNode\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Set the job's minimum number of CPUs per node to the specified value.
.IP

.TP
\fBMinMemoryCPU\fR=<\fImegabytes\fR>
Set the job's minimum real memory required per allocated CPU to the specified
value. Either \fIMinMemoryCPU\fP or \fIMinMemoryNode\fP may be set, but not both.
.IP

.TP
\fBMinMemoryNode\fR=<\fImegabytes\fR>
Set the job's minimum real memory required per node to the specified value.
Either \fIMinMemoryCPU\fP or \fIMinMemoryNode\fP may be set, but not both.
.IP

.TP
\fBMinTmpDiskNode\fR=<\fImegabytes\fR>
Set the job's minimum temporary disk space required per node to the specified value.
Only the Slurm administrator or root can change this parameter.
.IP

.TP
\fBTimeMin\fR=<\fItimespec\fR>
Change TimeMin value which specifies the minimum time limit minutes of the job.
.IP

.TP
\fBJobName\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the name of jobs to be modified or set the job's name to the
specified value.
When used to identify jobs to be modified, all jobs belonging to all users
are modified unless the \fIUserID\fP option is used to identify a specific user.
Either \fIJobId\fP or \fIJobName\fP is required.
.IP

.TP
\fBName\fR[=<\fIname\fR>]
See JobName.
.IP

.TP
\fBNice\fR[=<\fIadjustment\fR>]
Update the job with an adjusted scheduling priority within Slurm. With no
adjustment value the scheduling priority is decreased by 100. A negative nice
value increases the priority, otherwise decreases it. The adjustment range is
+/\- 2147483645. Only privileged users can specify a negative adjustment.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodeList\fR=<\fInodes\fR>
Change the nodes allocated to a running job to shrink its size.
The specified list of nodes must be a subset of the nodes currently
allocated to the job. Multiple node names may be specified using
simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10\-20]"). After a job's allocation
is reduced, subsequent \fBsrun\fR commands must explicitly specify node and
task counts which are valid for the new allocation.
.IP

.TP
\fBNumCPUs\fR=<\fImin_count\fR>[\-<\fImax_count\fR>]
Set the job's minimum and optionally maximum count of CPUs to be allocated.
.IP

.TP
\fBNumNodes\fR=<\fImin_count\fR>[\-<\fImax_count\fR>]
Set the job's minimum and optionally maximum count of nodes to be allocated.
If the job is already running, use this to specify a node count less than
currently allocated and resources previously allocated to the job will be
relinquished. After a job's allocation is reduced, subsequent \fBsrun\fR
commands must explicitly specify node and task counts which are valid for the
new allocation. Also see the \fINodeList\fP parameter above. This is the same
as ReqNodes.
.IP

.TP
\fBNumTasks\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Set the job's count of required tasks to the specified value. This is the same
as ReqProcs.
.IP

.TP
\fBOverSubscribe\fR={yes|no}
Set the job's ability to share compute resources (i.e. individual CPUs)
with other jobs. Possible values are "YES" and "NO".
This option can only be changed for pending jobs.
.IP

.TP
\fBPartition\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Set the job's partition to the specified value.
.IP

.TP
\fBPriority\fR=<\fInumber\fR>
Set the job's priority to the specified value.
Note that a job priority of zero prevents the job from ever being scheduled.
By setting a job's priority to zero it is held.
Set the priority to a non\-zero value to permit it to run.
Explicitly setting a job's priority clears any previously set nice value and
removes the priority/multifactor plugin's ability to manage a job's priority.
In order to restore the priority/multifactor plugin's ability to manage a
job's priority, hold and then release the job.
Only the Slurm administrator or root can increase job's priority.
.IP

.TP
\fBQOS\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Set the job's QOS (Quality Of Service) to the specified value.
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "QOS=".
.IP

.TP
\fBReboot\fR={yes|no}
Set the job's flag that specifies whether to force the allocated nodes to reboot
before starting the job. This is only supported with some system configurations
and therefore it could be silently ignored.
.IP

.TP
\fBReqCores\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Change the job's requested Cores count.
.IP

.TP
\fBReqNodeList\fR=<\fInodes\fR>
Set the job's list of required node. Multiple node names may be specified using
simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10\-20]").
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "ReqNodeList=".
.IP

.TP
\fBReqNodes\fR=<\fImin_count\fR>[\-<\fImax_count\fR>]
See NumNodes.
.IP

.TP
\fBReqProcs\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
See NumTasks.
.IP

.TP
\fBReqSockets\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Change the job's requested socket count.
.IP

.TP
\fBReqThreads\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Change the job's requested threads count.
.IP

.TP
\fBIRequeue\fR={0|1}
Stipulates whether a job should be requeued after a node failure: 0
for no, 1 for yes.
.IP

.TP
\fBReservationName\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Set the job's reservation to the specified value.
Value may be cleared with blank data value, "ReservationName=".
.IP

.TP
\fBResetAccrueTime\fR
Set the job's accrue time value to 'now' meaning it will lose any time
previously accrued for priority.  Helpful if you have a large queue of jobs
already in the queue and want to start limiting how many jobs can accrue time
without waiting for the queue to flush out.
.IP

.TP
\fBSiteFactor\fR=<\fIaccount\fR>
Specify the job's admin priority factor in the range of +/\-2147483645.
Only privileged users can modify the value.
.IP

.TP
\fBStdOut\fR=<\fIfilepath\fR>
Set the batch job's stdout file path.
.IP

.TP
\fBShared\fR={yes|no}
See \fIOverSubscribe\fP option above.
.IP

.TP
\fBStartTime\fR=<\fItime_spec\fR>
Set the job's earliest initiation time.
It accepts times of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR to run a job at
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
(If that time is already past, the next day is assumed.)
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, \fIfika\fR (3 PM) or
\fIteatime\fR (4 PM) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for running in the morning or the evening.
You can also say what day the job will be run, by specifying
a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR or \fIMM.DD.YY\fR,
or a date and time as \fIYYYY\-MM\-DD[THH:MM[:SS]]\fR.  You can also
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIseconds\fR (default), \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR, \fIdays\fR,
or \fIweeks\fR and you can tell Slurm to run the job today with the keyword
\fItoday\fR and to run the job tomorrow with the keyword
\fItomorrow\fR.
.IP
.RS
.PP
Notes on date/time specifications:
 \- although the 'seconds' field of the HH:MM:SS time specification is
allowed by the code, note that the poll time of the Slurm scheduler
is not precise enough to guarantee dispatch of the job on the exact
second.  The job will be eligible to start on the next poll
following the specified time. The exact poll interval depends on the
Slurm scheduler (e.g., 60 seconds with the default sched/builtin).
 \- if no time (HH:MM:SS) is specified, the default is (00:00:00).
 \- if a date is specified without a year (e.g., MM/DD) then the current
year is assumed, unless the combination of MM/DD and HH:MM:SS has
already passed for that year, in which case the next year is used.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBSwitches\fR=<\fIcount\fR>[@<\fImax\-time\-to\-wait\fR>]
When a tree topology is used, this defines the maximum count of switches
desired for the job allocation. If Slurm finds an allocation containing more
switches than the count specified, the job remain pending until it either finds
an allocation with desired switch count or the time limit expires. By default
there is no switch count limit and no time limit delay. Set the count
to zero in order to clean any previously set count (disabling the limit).
The job's maximum time delay may be limited by the system administrator using
the \fBSchedulerParameters\fR configuration parameter with the
\fBmax_switch_wait\fR parameter option.
Also see \fIwait\-for\-switch\fP.
.IP

.TP
\fBwait\-for\-switch\fR=<\fIseconds\fR>
Change max time to wait for a switch <seconds> secs.
.IP

.TP
\fBTasksPerNode\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Change the job's requested TasksPerNode.
.IP

.TP
\fBThreadSpec\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Number of threads to reserve per node for system use.
The job will be charged for these threads, but be unable to use them.
Will be reported as "*" if not constrained.
.IP

.TP
\fBTimeLimit\fR=<\fItime\fR>
The job's time limit.
Output format is [days\-]hours:minutes:seconds or "UNLIMITED".
Input format (for \fBupdate\fR command) set is minutes, minutes:seconds,
hours:minutes:seconds, days\-hours, days\-hours:minutes or
days\-hours:minutes:seconds.
Time resolution is one minute and second values are rounded up to
the next minute.
If changing the time limit of a job, either specify a new time limit value or
precede the time and equal sign with a "+" or "\-" to increment or decrement the
current time limit (e.g. "TimeLimit+=30"). In order to increment or decrement
the current time limit, the \fIJobId\fP specification must precede the
\fITimeLimit\fP specification.
Note that incrementing or decrementing the time limit for a job array is only
allowed before the job array has been split into more than one job record.
Only the Slurm administrator or root can increase job's TimeLimit.
.IP

.TP
\fBUserID\fR=<\fIUID\fR or \fIname\fR>
Used with the \fIJobName\fP option to identify jobs to be modified.
Either a user name or numeric ID (UID), may be specified.
.IP

.TP
\fBWCKey\fR=<\fIkey\fR>
Set the job's workload characterization key to the specified value.
.IP

.TP
\fBWorkDir\fR=<\fIdirectory_name\fR>
Set the job's working directory to the specified value. Note that this may
only be set for jobs in the PENDING state, and that jobs may fail to launch
if they rely on relative paths to the originally submitted WorkDir.
.IP

.SH "JOBS \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR SHOW COMMAND"
The "show" command, when used with the "job" or "job <jobid>"
entity displays detailed information about a job or jobs.  Much of
this information may be modified using the "update job" command as
described above.  However, the following fields displayed by the show
job command are read\-only and cannot be modified:

.TP
\fBAllocNode:Sid\fR
Local node and system id making the resource allocation.
.IP

.TP
\fBBatchFlag\fR
Jobs submitted using the sbatch command have BatchFlag set to 1.
Jobs submitted using other commands have BatchFlag set to 0.
.IP

.TP
\fBExitCode\fR=<\fIexit\fR>:<\fIsig\fR>
Exit status reported for the job by the wait() function.
The first number is the exit code, typically as set by the exit() function.
The second number of the signal that caused the process to terminate if
it was terminated by a signal.
.IP

.TP
\fBGroupId\fR
The group under which the job was submitted.
.IP

.TP
\fBJobState\fR
The current state of the job.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodeListIndices\fR
The NodeIndices expose the internal indices into the node table
associated with the node(s) allocated to the job.
.IP

.TP
\fBNtasksPerN:B:S:C\fR=<\fItasks_per_node\fR>:<\fItasks_per_baseboard\fR>:<\fItasks_per_socket\fR>:<\fItasks_per_core\fR>
Specifies the number of tasks to be started per hardware component (node,
baseboard, socket and core).
Unconstrained values may be shown as "0" or "*".
.IP

.TP
\fBPreemptEligibleTime\fR
Time the job becomes eligible for preemption. Modified by PreemptExemptTime,
either from the global option in slurm.conf or the job QOS. This is hidden if
the job has not started or if PreemptMode=OFF.
.IP

.TP
\fBPreemptTime\fR
Time at which job was signaled that it was selected for preemption.
This value is only meaningful for \fIPreemptMode=CANCEL\fR and
\fIPreemptMode=REQUEUE\fR and for jobs in a partition or QOS that has a
GraceTime value designated. This is hidden if the job has not started or
if \fIPreemptMode=OFF\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBPreSusTime\fR
Time the job ran prior to last suspend.
.IP

.TP
\fBReason\fR
The reason job is not running: e.g., waiting "Resources".
.IP

.TP
\fBReqB:S:C:T\fR=<\fIbaseboard_count\fR>:<\fIsocket_per_baseboard_count\fR>:<\fIcore_per_socket_count\fR>:<\fIthread_per_core_count\fR>
Specifies the count of various hardware components requested by the job.
Unconstrained values may be shown as "0" or "*".
.IP

.TP
\fBSecsPreSuspend\fR=<\fIseconds\fR>
If the job is suspended, this is the run time accumulated by the job
(in seconds) prior to being suspended.
.IP

.TP
\fBSocks/Node\fR=<\fRcount\fR>
Count of desired sockets per node
.IP

.TP
\fBSubmitTime\fR
The time  and  date stamp (in localtime) the job was submitted.
The format of the output is identical to that of the EndTime field.

NOTE: If a job is requeued, the submit time is reset.
To obtain the original submit time it is necessary
to use the "sacct \-j <job_id[.<step_id>]" command also
designating the \-D or \-\-duplicate option to display all
duplicate entries for a job.
.IP

.TP
\fBSuspendTime\fR
Time the job was last suspended or resumed.

NOTE on information displayed for various job states:
When you submit a request for the "show job" function the scontrol
process makes an RPC request call to slurmctld with a REQUEST_JOB_INFO
message type.  If the state of the job is PENDING, then it returns
some detail information such as: min_nodes, min_procs, cpus_per_task,
etc. If the state is other than PENDING the code assumes that it is in
a further state such as RUNNING, COMPLETE, etc. In these cases the
code explicitly returns zero for these values. These values are
meaningless once the job resources have been allocated and the job has
started.
.IP

.SH "STEPS \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE COMMAND"

.TP
\fBStepId\fR=<\fIjob_id\fR>[.<\fIstep_id\fR>]
Identify the step to be updated.
If the job_id is given, but no step_id is specified then all steps of
the identified job will be modified.
This specification is required.
.IP

.TP
\fBTimeLimit\fR=<\fItime\fR>
The job's time limit.
Output format is [days\-]hours:minutes:seconds or "UNLIMITED".
Input format (for \fBupdate\fR command) set is minutes, minutes:seconds,
hours:minutes:seconds, days\-hours, days\-hours:minutes or
days\-hours:minutes:seconds.
Time resolution is one minute and second values are rounded up to
the next minute.
If changing the time limit of a step, either specify a new time limit value or
precede the time with a "+" or "\-" to increment or decrement the current
time limit (e.g. "TimeLimit=+30"). In order to increment or decrement the
current time limit, the \fIStepId\fP specification must precede the
\fITimeLimit\fP specification.
.IP

.SH "NODES \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE COMMAND"

.TP
\fBNodeName\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the node(s) to be updated. Multiple node names may be specified using
simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10\-20]"). This specification is required.
.IP

.TP
\fBActiveFeatures\fR=<\fIfeatures\fR>
Identify the feature(s) currently active on the specified node.
Any previously active feature specification will be overwritten with the new
value.
Also see \fIAvailableFeatures\fP.
Typically \fIActiveFeatures\fP will be identical to \fIAvailableFeatures\fP;
however \fIActiveFeatures\fP may be configured as a subset of the
\fIAvailableFeatures\fP. For example, a node may be booted in multiple
configurations. In that case, all possible configurations may be identified as
\fIAvailableFeatures\fP, while \fIActiveFeatures\fP would identify the current
node configuration.
When updating the ActiveFeatures with scontrol, the change is only made in
slurmctld. When using a node_features plugin the state/features of the node
must be updated on the node such that a new node start will report the updated
state/features.
.IP

.TP
\fBAvailableFeatures\fR=<\fIfeatures\fR>
Identify the feature(s) available on the specified node.
Any previously defined available feature specification will be overwritten with
the new value.
AvailableFeatures assigned via \fBscontrol\fR will only persist across the
restart of the slurmctld daemon with the \fI\-R\fR option and state files
preserved or slurmctld's receipt of a SIGHUP.
Update slurm.conf with any changes meant to be persistent across normal
restarts of slurmctld or the execution of \fBscontrol reconfig\fR.

\fBNote\fR: Available features being removed via \fBscontrol\fR must not be
active (i.e. remove them from \fIActiveFeatures\fP first).
.IP

.TP
\fBComment\fR=<\fIcomment\fR>
Arbitrary descriptive string.
Use quotes to enclose a comment having more than one word
.IP

.TP
\fBCpuBind\fR=<\fInode\fR>
Specify the task binding mode to be used by default for this node.
Supported options include: "none", "socket", "ldom" (NUMA), "core",
"thread" and "off" (remove previous binding mode).
.IP

.TP
\fBExtra\fR=<\fIcomment\fR>
Arbitrary string on the node. Use quotes to enclose a string having more than
one word.
.IP

.TP
\fBGres\fR=<\fIgres\fR>
Identify generic resources to be associated with the specified node.  Any
previously defined generic resources will be overwritten with the new value.
Specifications for multiple generic resources should be comma separated.
Each resource specification consists of a name followed by an optional
colon with a numeric value (default value is one) (e.g. "Gres=bandwidth:10000").
Modification of GRES count associated with specific files (e.g. GPUs) is not
allowed other than to set their count on a node to zero.
In order to change the GRES count to another value, modify your slurm.conf and
gres.conf files and restart daemons.
If GRES are associated with specific sockets, that information will be reported
For example if all 4 GPUs on a node are all associated with socket zero, then
"Gres=gpu:4(S:0)". If associated with sockets 0 and 1 then "Gres=gpu:4(S:0\-1)".
The information of which specific GPUs are associated with specific GPUs is not
reported, but only available by parsing the gres.conf file.
Generic resources assigned via \fBscontrol\fR will only persist across the
restart of the slurmctld daemon with the \fI\-R\fR option and state files
preserved or slurmctld's receipt of a SIGHUP.
Update slurm.conf with any changes meant to be persistent across normal
restarts of slurmctld or the execution of \fBscontrol reconfig\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodeAddr\fR=<\fInode address\fR>
Name that a node should be referred to in establishing a communications path.
This name will be used as an argument to the getaddrinfo() function for
identification. If a node range expression is used to designate multiple nodes,
they must exactly match the entries in the \fINodeName\fP
(e.g. "NodeName=lx[0\-7] NodeAddr=elx[0\-7]"). \fINodeAddr\fP may also contain
IP addresses.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodeHostname\fR=<\fInode hostname\fR>
Typically this would be the string that "/bin/hostname \-s" returns.
It may also be the fully qualified domain name as returned by
"/bin/hostname \-f" (e.g. "foo1.bar.com"), or any valid domain name associated
with the host through the host database (/etc/hosts) or DNS, depending on the
resolver settings. Note that if the short form of the hostname is not used, it
may prevent use of hostlist expressions (the numeric portion in brackets must be
at the end of the string). A node range expression can be used to specify a set
of nodes. If an expression is used, the number of nodes identified by
\fINodeHostname\fP must be identical to the number of nodes identified by
\fINodeName\fP.
.IP

.TP
\fBReason\fR=<\fIreason\fR>
Identify the reason the node is in a "DOWN", "DRAINED", "DRAINING",
"FAILING" or "FAIL" state.
Use quotes to enclose a reason having more than one word.
.IP

.TP
\fBState\fR=<\fIstate\fR>
Assign one of the following states/actions to the node(s) specified by the
update command.
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBCANCEL_REBOOT\fR
Cancels a pending reboot on the node (same as \fIscontrol
cancel_reboot <node>\fR).
.IP

.TP
\fBDOWN\fR
Stop all running and suspended jobs and make the node unavailable for
new jobs.
.IP

.TP
\fBDRAIN\fR
Indicates that no new jobs may be started on this node. Existing jobs are
allowed to run to completion, leaving the node in a \fBDRAINED\fR state once
all the jobs have completed.
.IP

.TP
\fBFAIL\fR
Similar to \fBDRAIN\fR except that some applications will seek to relinquish
those nodes before the job completes.
.IP

.TP
\fBFUTURE\fR
Indicates the node is not fully configured, but is expected to be available
at some point in the future.
.IP

.TP
\fBNoResp\fR
This will set the "Not Responding" flag for a node without changing its
underlying state.
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWER_DOWN\fR
Will use the configured \fISuspendProgram\fR program to explicitly place a node
in power saving mode. If a node is already in the process of being powered
down, the command will only change the state of the node but won't have any
effect until the configured \fISuspendTimeout\fR is reached.
Use of this command can be useful in situations where a \fIResumeProgram\fR,
like \fIcapmc\fR in Cray machines, is stalled and one
wants to restore the node to "IDLE" manually. In this case rebooting the node
and setting the state to "POWER_DOWN" will cancel the previous "POWER_UP"
state and the node will become "IDLE".
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWER_DOWN_ASAP\fR
Will drain the node and mark it for power down. Currently running jobs will
complete first and no additional jobs will be allocated to the node.
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWER_DOWN_FORCE\fR
Will cancel all jobs on the node, power it down, and reset its state to
"IDLE".
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWER_UP\fR
Will use the configured \fIResumeProgram\fR program to explicitly move a node
out of power saving mode. If a node is already in the process of being powered
up, the command will only change the state of the node but won't have any
effect until the configured \fIResumeTimeout\fR is reached.
.IP

.TP
\fBRESUME\fR
Not an actual node state, but will change a node state from \fBDRAIN\fR,
\fBDRAINING\fR, \fBDOWN\fR or \fBREBOOT\fR to \fBIDLE\fR and \fBNoResp\fR.
slurmctld will then attempt to contact slurmd to request that the node
register itself. Once registered, the node state will then remove the
\fBNoResp\fR flag and will resume normal operations. It will also clear the
\fBPOWERING_DOWN\fR state of a node and make it eligible to be allocted.
.IP

.TP
\fBUNDRAIN\fR
Clears the node from being drained (like \fBRESUME\fR), but will
not change the node's base state (e.g. \fBDOWN\fR). \fBUNDRAIN\fR requires a
valid node registration before new jobs can be scheduled on the node.
Setting a node \fBDOWN\fR will cause all running and suspended jobs on that
node to be terminated.
.RE
.IP

While all of the above states are valid, some of them are not valid new
node states given their prior state.

\fBNOTE\fR: The scontrol command should not be used to change node state on
Cray systems. Use Cray tools such as \fIxtprocadmin\fR instead.
.IP

.TP
\fBWeight\fR=<\fIweight\fR>
Identify weight to be associated with specified nodes. This allows
dynamic changes to weight associated with nodes, which will be used
for the subsequent node allocation decisions.
Weight assigned via \fBscontrol\fR will only persist across the restart
of the slurmctld daemon with the \fI\-R\fR option and state files
preserved or slurmctld's receipt of a SIGHUP.
Update slurm.conf with any changes meant to be persistent across normal
restarts of slurmctld or the execution of \fBscontrol reconfig\fR.
.IP

.SH "NODES \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR SHOW COMMAND"

.TP
\fBAllocMem\fR
The total memory, in MB, currently allocated by jobs on the node.
.IP

.TP
\fBCPUSpecList\fR
The list of Slurm abstract CPU IDs on this node reserved for
exclusive use by the Slurm compute node daemons (slurmd, slurmstepd).
.IP

.TP
\fBFreeMem\fR
The total memory, in MB, currently free on the node as reported by the OS.
.IP

.TP
\fBLastBusyTime\fR
The last time the node was busy (i.e. last time the node had jobs on it). This
time is used in PowerSave to determine when to suspend nodes (e.g. now \-
LastBusy > SuspendTime).
.IP

.TP
\fBMemSpecLimit\fR
The combined memory limit, in megabytes, on this node for the Slurm compute
node daemons (slurmd, slurmstepd).
.IP

.TP
\fBRealMemory\fR
The total memory, in MB, on the node.
.IP

.TP
\fBState\fR
Identify the state(s) assigned to the node with '+' delimited state flags.

States:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBALLOCATED\fR
Indicates that the node has all CPUs allocated to job(s) running on the node.
.IP

.TP
\fBDOWN\fR
The node does not have any running jobs and is unavailable for new work.
.IP

.TP
\fBERROR\fR
The node is in an error state. Consult the logs for more information about
what caused this state.
.IP

.TP
\fBFUTURE\fR
The node is currently not fully configured, but expected to be available at
some point in the indefinite future for use.
.IP

.TP
\fBIDLE\fR
Indicates that the node is available for work but does not currently have
any jobs assigned to it.
.IP

.TP
\fBMIXED\fR
Indicates that the node is in multiple states.  For instance if only part
of the node is \fBALLOCATED\fR and the rest of the node is \fBIDLE\fR the
state will be \fBMIXED\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBUNKNOWN\fR
The node has not yet registered with the controller and its state is not known.
.RE
.IP

Flags:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBCLOUD\fR
Indicates that the node is configured as a cloud node, to be brought up
on demand, but not currently running.
.IP

.TP
\fBCOMPLETING\fR
Indicates that the only job on the node or that all jobs on the node are in
the process of completing.
.IP

.TP
\fBDRAIN\fR
The node is not accepting any new jobs and any currently running jobs will
complete.
.IP

.TP
\fBDYNAMIC\fR
Slurm allows you to define multiple types of nodes in a FUTURE state.
When starting \fBslurmd\fR on a node you can specify the \fB\-F\fR flag to have
the node match and use an existing definition in your slurm.conf file. The
DYNAMIC state indicates that the node was started as a Dynamic Future node.
.IP

.TP
\fBINVALID_REG\fR
The node did not register correctly with the controller. This happens when
a node registers with less resources than configured in the slurm.conf file.
The node will clear from this state with a valid registration (i.e. a slurmd
restart is required).
.IP

.TP
\fBMAINTENANCE\fR
The node is currently in a reservation that includes the \fImaintenance\fR
flag.
.IP

.TP
\fBNOT_RESPONDING\fR
Node is not responding.
.IP

.TP
\fBPERFCTRS\fR
Indicates that Network Performance Counters associated with this node are in
use, rendering this node as not usable for any other jobs.
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWER_DOWN\fR
Node is pending power down.
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWERED_DOWN\fR
Node is currently powered down and not capable of running any jobs.
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWERING_DOWN\fR
Node is in the process of powering down.
.IP

.TP
\fBPOWERING_UP\fR
Node is in the process of powering up.
.IP

.TP
\fBPLANNED\fR
The node is earmarked for a job that will start in the future.
.IP

.TP
\fBREBOOT_ISSUED\fR
A reboot request has been sent to the agent configured to handle this request.
.IP

.TP
\fBREBOOT_REQUESTED\fR
A request to reboot this node has been made, but hasn't been handled yet.
.IP

.TP
\fBRESERVED\fR
Indicates the node is in an advanced reservation and not generally available.
.IP
.RE

.TP
The meaning of the energy information is as follows:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBCurrentWatts\fR
The instantaneous power consumption of the node at the time of the last node
energy accounting sample, in watts.
.IP

.TP
\fBLowestJoules\fR
The energy consumed by the node between the last time it was powered on and
the last time it was registered by slurmd, in joules.
.IP

.TP
\fBConsumedJoules\fR
The energy consumed by the node between the last time it was registered by
the slurmd daemon and the last node energy accounting sample, in joules.
.IP

.PP
If the reported value is "n/s" (not supported), the node does not support the
configured \fBAcctGatherEnergyType\fR plugin. If the reported value is zero, energy
accounting for nodes is disabled.
.RE

.TP
The meaning of the external sensors information is as follows:
.IP
.RS
.TP
\fBExtSensorsJoules\fR
The energy consumed by the node between the last time it was powered on
and the last external sensors plugin node sample, in joules.
.IP

.TP
\fBExtSensorsWatts\fR
The instantaneous power consumption of the node at the time of the last
external sensors plugin node sample, in watts.
.IP

.TP
\fBExtSensorsTemp\fR
The temperature of the node at the time of the last external sensors plugin
node sample, in celsius.
.IP

.PP
If the reported value is "n/s" (not supported), the node does not support the
configured \fBExtSensorsType\fR plugin.
.RE
.IP

.SH "FRONTEND \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR UPDATE COMMAND"

.TP
\fBFrontendName\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the front end node to be updated. This specification is required.
.IP

.TP
\fBReason\fR=<\fIreason\fR>
Identify the reason the node is in a "DOWN" or "DRAIN" state.
Use quotes to enclose a reason having more than one word.
.IP

.TP
\fBState\fR=<\fIstate\fR>
Identify the state to be assigned to the front end node. Possible values are
"DOWN", "DRAIN" or "RESUME".
If you want to remove a front end node from service, you typically want to set
its state to "DRAIN".
"RESUME" is not an actual node state, but will return a "DRAINED", "DRAINING",
or "DOWN" front end node to service, either "IDLE" or "ALLOCATED" state as
appropriate.
Setting a front end node "DOWN" will cause all running and suspended jobs on
that node to be terminated.
.IP

.SH "PARTITIONS \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR CREATE, UPDATE, AND DELETE COMMANDS"

.TP
\fBAllowGroups\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the user groups which may use this partition.
Multiple groups may be specified in a comma separated list.
To permit all groups to use the partition specify "AllowGroups=ALL".
.IP

.TP
\fBAllocNodes\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Comma separated list of nodes from which users can execute jobs in the
partition.
Node names may be specified using the node range expression syntax
described above.
The default value is "ALL".
.IP

.TP
\fBAlternate\fR=<\fIpartition name\fR>
Alternate partition to be used if the state of this partition is "DRAIN" or
"INACTIVE."  The value "NONE" will clear a previously set alternate partition.
.IP

.TP
\fBCpuBind\fR=<\fInode\fR>
Specify the task binding mode to be used by default for this partition.
Supported options include: "none", "socket", "ldom" (NUMA), "core",
"thread" and "off" (remove previous binding mode).
.IP

.TP
\fBDefault\fR={yes|no}
Specify if this partition is to be used by jobs which do not explicitly
identify a partition to use.
Possible output values are "YES" and "NO".
In order to change the default partition of a running system,
use the scontrol update command and set Default=yes for the partition
that you want to become the new default.
.IP

.TP
\fBDefaultTime\fR=<\fItime\fR>
Run time limit used for jobs that don't specify a value. If not set
then MaxTime will be used.
Format is the same as for MaxTime.
.IP

.TP
\fBDefMemPerCPU\fR=<\fIMB\fR>
Set the default memory to be allocated per CPU for jobs in this partition.
The memory size is specified in megabytes.
.IP

.TP
\fBDefMemPerNode\fR=<\fIMB\fR>
Set the default memory to be allocated per node for jobs in this partition.
The memory size is specified in megabytes.
.IP

.TP
\fBDisableRootJobs\fR={yes|no}
Specify if jobs can be executed as user root.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO".
.IP

.TP
\fBGraceTime\fR=<\fIseconds\fR>
Specifies, in units of seconds, the preemption grace time
to be extended to a job which has been selected for preemption.
The default value is zero, no preemption grace time is allowed on
this partition or qos.
(Meaningful only for PreemptMode=CANCEL)
.IP

.TP
\fBHidden\fR={yes|no}
Specify if the partition and its jobs should be hidden from view.
Hidden partitions will by default not be reported by Slurm APIs
or commands.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO".
.IP

.TP
\fBJobDefaults\fR=<\fIspecs\fR>
Specify job default values using a comma\-delimited list of "key=value" pairs.
Supported keys include
.IP
.RS
.TP 14
\fBDefCpuPerGPU\fR
Default number of CPUs per allocated GPU.
.IP

.TP
\fBDefMemPerGPU\fR
Default memory limit (in megabytes) per allocated GPU.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBMaxMemPerCPU\fR=<\fIMB\fR>
Set the maximum memory to be allocated per CPU for jobs in this partition.
The memory size is specified in megabytes.
.IP

.TP
\fBMaxMemPerCNode\fR=<\fIMB\fR>
Set the maximum memory to be allocated per node for jobs in this partition.
The memory size is specified in megabytes.
.IP

.TP
\fBMaxNodes\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Set the maximum number of nodes which will be allocated to any single job
in the partition. Specify a number, "INFINITE" or "UNLIMITED".
Changing the \fIMaxNodes\fP of a partition has no effect upon jobs that
have already begun execution.
.IP

.TP
\fBMaxTime\fR=<\fItime\fR>
The maximum run time for jobs.
Output format is [days\-]hours:minutes:seconds or "UNLIMITED".
Input format (for \fBupdate\fR command) is minutes, minutes:seconds,
hours:minutes:seconds, days\-hours, days\-hours:minutes or
days\-hours:minutes:seconds.
Time resolution is one minute and second values are rounded up to
the next minute.
Changing the \fIMaxTime\fP of a partition has no effect upon jobs that
have already begun execution.
.IP

.TP
\fBMinNodes\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Set the minimum number of nodes which will be allocated to any single job
in the partition.
Changing the \fIMinNodes\fP of a partition has no effect upon jobs that
have already begun execution. Increasing this value may prevent pending jobs
from starting, even if they were submitted without \-N/\-\-nodes specification.
If you do get in that situation, updating the \fIMinNodes\fP value of a
pending job using the scontrol command will allow that job to be scheduled.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodes\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the node(s) to be associated with this partition. Multiple node names
may be specified using simple node range expressions (e.g. "lx[10\-20]").
Note that jobs may only be associated with one partition at any time.
Specify a blank data value to remove all nodes from a partition: "Nodes=".
Changing the \fINodes\fP in a partition has no effect upon jobs that
have already begun execution.
.IP

.TP
\fBOverTimeLimit\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Number of minutes by which a job can exceed its time limit before
being canceled.
The configured job time limit is treated as a \fIsoft\fR limit.
Adding \fBOverTimeLimit\fR to the \fIsoft\fR limit provides a \fIhard\fR
limit, at which point the job is canceled.
This is particularly useful for backfill scheduling, which bases upon
each job's soft time limit.
A partition\-specific \fIOverTimeLimit\fP will override any global
\fIOverTimeLimit\fP value.
If not specified, the global \fIOverTimeLimit\fP value will take precedence.
May not exceed 65533 minutes.
An input value of "UNLIMITED" will clear any previously configured
partition\-specific \fIOverTimeLimit\fP value.
.IP

.TP
\fBOverSubscribe\fR={yes|no|exclusive|force}[:<\fIjob_count\fR>]
Specify if compute resources (i.e. individual CPUs) in this partition can be
shared by multiple jobs.
Possible values are "YES", "NO", "EXCLUSIVE" and "FORCE".
An optional job count specifies how many jobs can be allocated to use
each resource.
.IP

.TP
\fBPartitionName\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the partition to be updated. This specification is required.
.IP

.TP
\fBPreemptMode\fR=<\fImode\fR>
Reset the mechanism used to preempt jobs in this partition if \fIPreemptType\fP
is configured to \fIpreempt/partition_prio\fP. The default preemption mechanism
is specified by the cluster\-wide \fIPreemptMode\fP configuration parameter.
Possible values are "OFF", "CANCEL", "REQUEUE" and "SUSPEND".
.IP

.TP
\fBPriority\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Jobs submitted to a higher priority partition will be dispatched
before pending jobs in lower priority partitions and if possible
they will preempt running jobs from lower priority partitions.
Note that a partition's priority takes precedence over a job's
priority.
The value may not exceed 65533.
.IP

.TP
\fBPriorityJobFactor\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Partition factor used by priority/multifactor plugin in calculating
job priority.  The value may not exceed 65533.  Also see PriorityTier.
.IP

.TP
\fBPriorityTier\fR=<\fIcount\fR>
Jobs submitted to a partition with a higher priority tier value will
be dispatched before pending jobs in partition with lower priority tier
value and,  if  possible,  they  will  preempt  running jobs from
partitions with lower priority tier values.  Note that a partition's
priority tier takes precedence over a job's priority.  The value may
not exceed 65533.  Also see PriorityJobFactor.
.IP

.TP
\fBQOS\fR=<\fIQOSname\fR|\fIblank to remove\fR>
Set the partition QOS with a QOS name or to remove the Partition QOS
leave the option blank.
.IP

.TP
\fBRootOnly\fR={yes|no}
Specify if only allocation requests initiated by user root will be satisfied.
This can be used to restrict control of the partition to some meta\-scheduler.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO".
.IP

.TP
\fBReqResv\fR={yes|no}
Specify if only allocation requests designating a reservation will be
satisfied.  This is used to restrict partition usage to be allowed only
within a reservation.
Possible values are "YES" and "NO".
.IP

.TP
\fBShared\fR={yes|no|exclusive|force}[:<\fIjob_count\fR>]
Renamed to \fIOverSubscribe\fP, see option descriptions above.
.IP

.TP
\fBState\fR={up|down|drain|inactive}
Specify if jobs can be allocated nodes or queued in this partition.
Possible values are "UP", "DOWN", "DRAIN" and "INACTIVE".
.IP
.RS
.TP 10
\fBUP\fR
Designates that new jobs may queued on the partition, and that
jobs may be allocated nodes and run from the partition.
.IP

.TP
\fBDOWN\fR
Designates that new jobs may be queued on the partition, but
queued jobs may not be allocated nodes and run from the partition. Jobs
already running on the partition continue to run. The jobs
must be explicitly canceled to force their termination.
.IP

.TP
\fBDRAIN\fR
Designates that no new jobs may be queued on the partition (job
submission requests will be denied with an error message), but jobs
already queued on the partition may be allocated nodes and run.
See also the "Alternate" partition specification.
.IP

.TP
\fBINACTIVE\fR
Designates that no new jobs may be queued on the partition,
and jobs already queued may not be allocated nodes and run.
See also the "Alternate" partition specification.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBTRESBillingWeights\fR=<\fITRES Billing Weights\fR>
TRESBillingWeights is used to define the billing weights of each TRES type that
will be used in calculating the usage of a job. The calculated usage is used
when calculating fairshare and when enforcing the TRES billing limit on jobs.
Updates affect new jobs and not existing jobs.
See the slurm.conf man page for more information.
.IP

.SH "RESERVATIONS \- SPECIFICATIONS FOR CREATE, UPDATE, AND DELETE COMMANDS"

.TP
\fBReservation\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the name of the reservation to be created, updated, or deleted.
This parameter is required for update and is the only parameter for delete.
For create, if you do not want to give a reservation name, use
"scontrol create res ..." and a name will be created automatically.
.IP

.TP
\fBAccounts\fR=<\fIaccount list\fR>
List of accounts permitted to use the reserved nodes, for example
"Accounts=physcode1,physcode2".
A user in any of the accounts may use the reserved nodes.
A new reservation must specify Users or Groups and/or Accounts.
If both Users/Groups and Accounts are specified, a job must match both in order
to use the reservation.
Accounts can also be denied access to reservations by preceding all of the
account names with '\-'. Alternately precede the equal sign with '\-'.
For example, "Accounts=\-physcode1,\-physcode2" or "Accounts\-=physcode1,physcode2"
will permit any account except physcode1 and physcode2 to use the reservation.
You can add or remove individual accounts from an existing reservation by
using the update command and adding a '+' or '\-' sign before the '=' sign.
If accounts are denied access to a reservation (account name preceded by a '\-'),
then all other accounts are implicitly allowed to use the reservation and it is
not possible to also explicitly specify allowed accounts.
.IP

.TP
\fBBurstBuffer\fR=<\fIbuffer_spec\fR>[,<\fIbuffer_spec\fR>,...]
Specification of burst buffer resources which are to be reserved.
"buffer_spec" consists of four elements:
[plugin:][type:]#[units]
"plugin" is the burst buffer plugin name, currently either "datawarp" or
"generic".
If no plugin is specified, the reservation applies to all configured burst
buffer plugins.
"type" specifies a Cray generic burst buffer resource, for example "nodes".
if "type" is not specified, the number is a measure of storage space.
The "units" may be "N" (nodes), "K|KiB", "M|MiB", "G|GiB", "T|TiB", "P|PiB"
(for powers of 1024) and "KB", "MB", "GB", "TB", "PB" (for powers of 1000).
The default units are bytes for reservations of storage space.
For example "BurstBuffer=datawarp:2TB" (reserve 2TB of storage plus
3 nodes from the Cray plugin) or
"BurstBuffer=100GB" (reserve 100 GB of storage from all configured burst buffer
plugins).
Jobs using this reservation are not restricted to these burst buffer resources,
but may use these reserved resources plus any which are generally available.
NOTE: Usually Slurm interprets KB, MB, GB, TB, PB, TB units as powers of 1024,
but for Burst Buffers size specifications Slurm supports both IEC/SI formats.
This is because the CRAY API for managing DataWarps supports both formats.
.IP

.TP
\fBCoreCnt\fR=<\fInum\fR>
This option is only supported when \fISelectType=select/cons_res\fP or
\fIselect/cons_tres\fP. Identify number of cores to be reserved.
If NodeCnt is used without the FIRST_CORES flag, this
is the total number of cores to reserve where cores per node is CoreCnt/NodeCnt.
If a nodelist is used, or if NodeCnt is used with the FIRST_CORES flag, this
should be an array of core numbers by node: Nodes=node[1\-5] CoreCnt=2,2,3,3,4
or flags=FIRST_CORES NodeCnt=5 CoreCnt=1,2,1,3,2.
.IP

.TP
\fBLicenses\fR=<\fIlicense\fR>
Specification of licenses (or other resources available on all
nodes of the cluster) which are to be reserved.
License names can be followed by a colon and count
(the default count is one).
Multiple license names should be comma separated (e.g. "Licenses=foo:4,bar").
A new reservation must specify one or more resource to be included: NodeCnt,
Nodes and/or Licenses.
If a reservation includes Licenses, but no NodeCnt or Nodes, then the option
\fIFlags=LICENSE_ONLY\fP must also be specified.
Jobs using this reservation are not restricted to these licenses, but may
use these reserved licenses plus any which are generally available.
.IP

.TP
\fBMaxStartDelay\fR[=<\fItimespec\fR>]
Change MaxStartDelay value which specifies the maximum time an eligible job not
requesting this reservation can delay a job requesting it. Default is none.
Valid formats are minutes, minutes:seconds,
hours:minutes:seconds, days\-hours, days\-hours:minutes,
days\-hours:minutes:seconds.  Time resolution is one minute and
second values are rounded up to the next minute. Output format is always
[days\-]hours:minutes:seconds.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodeCnt\fR=<\fInum\fR>[,<\fInum\fR>,...]
Identify number of nodes to be reserved. The number can include a suffix of
"k" or "K", in which case the number specified is multiplied by 1024.
A new reservation must specify one or more resource to be included: NodeCnt,
Nodes and/or Licenses.
.IP

.TP
\fBNodes\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Identify the node(s) to be reserved. Multiple node names
may be specified using simple node range expressions (e.g. "Nodes=lx[10\-20]").
Specify a blank data value to remove all nodes from a reservation: "Nodes=".
A new reservation must specify one or more resource to be included: NodeCnt,
Nodes and/or Licenses. A specification of "ALL" will reserve all nodes. Set
\fIFlags=PART_NODES\fP and \fIPartitionName=\fP in order for changes in the
nodes associated with a partition to also be reflected in the nodes associated
with a reservation.
.IP

.TP
\fBStartTime\fR=<\fItime_spec\fR>
The start time for the reservation.  A new reservation must specify a start
time.  It accepts times of the form \fIHH:MM:SS\fR for
a specific time of day (seconds are optional).
(If that time is already past, the next day is assumed.)
You may also specify \fImidnight\fR, \fInoon\fR, \fIfika\fR (3 PM) or
\fIteatime\fR (4 PM) and you can have a time\-of\-day suffixed
with \fIAM\fR or \fIPM\fR for running in the morning or the evening.
You can also say what day the job will be run, by specifying
a date of the form \fIMMDDYY\fR or \fIMM/DD/YY\fR or \fIMM.DD.YY\fR,
or a date and time as \fIYYYY\-MM\-DD[THH:MM[:SS]]\fR.  You can also
give times like \fInow + count time\-units\fR, where the time\-units
can be \fIseconds\fR (default), \fIminutes\fR, \fIhours\fR, \fIdays\fR,
or \fIweeks\fR and you can tell Slurm to run the job today with the keyword
\fItoday\fR and to run the job tomorrow with the keyword
\fItomorrow\fR. You cannot update the \fIStartTime\fP of a reservation
in \fIACTIVE\fP state.
.IP

.TP
\fBEndTime\fR=<\fItime_spec\fR>
The end time for the reservation.  A new reservation must specify an end
time or a duration.  Valid formats are the same as for StartTime.
.IP

.TP
\fBDuration\fR=<\fItime\fR>
The length of a reservation.  A new reservation must specify an end
time or a duration.  Valid formats are minutes, minutes:seconds,
hours:minutes:seconds, days\-hours, days\-hours:minutes,
days\-hours:minutes:seconds, or UNLIMITED.  Time resolution is one minute and
second values are rounded up to the next minute. Output format is always
[days\-]hours:minutes:seconds.
.IP

.TP
\fBPartitionName\fR=<\fIname\fR>
Partition used to reserve nodes from. This will attempt to allocate all
nodes in the specified partition unless you request fewer resources than
are available with \fICoreCnt\fR, \fINodeCnt\fR or \fITRES\fR. Jobs will be
allowed to use this reservation even if running in a different partition. There
only needs to be overlapping nodes from that different partition and the nodes
used in the reservation.
.IP

.TP
\fBFlags\fR=<\fIflags\fR>
Flags associated with the reservation.
You can add or remove individual flags from an existing reservation by
adding a '+' or '\-' sign before the '=' sign.  For example:
Flags\-=DAILY (NOTE: this shortcut is not supported for all flags).
Currently supported flags include:
.IP
.RS
.TP 14
\fBANY_NODES\fR
This is a reservation for burst buffers and/or licenses only and not compute
nodes.
If this flag is set, a job using this reservation may use the associated
burst buffers and/or licenses plus any compute nodes.
If this flag is not set, a job using this reservation may use only the nodes
and licenses associated with the reservation.
.IP

.TP
\fBDAILY\fR
Repeat the reservation at the same time every day.
.IP

.TP
\fBFLEX\fR
Permit jobs requesting the reservation to begin prior to the reservation's
start time, end after the reservation's end time, and use any resources inside
and/or outside of the reservation regardless of any constraints possibly set in
the reservation. A typical use case is to prevent jobs not explicitly
requesting the reservation from using those reserved resources rather than
forcing jobs requesting the reservation to use those resources in the time
frame reserved. Another use case could be to always have a particular number of
nodes with a specific feature reserved for a specific account so users in this
account may use this nodes plus possibly other nodes without this feature.
.IP

.TP
\fBFIRST_CORES\fR
Use the lowest numbered cores on a node only. Flag removal with '\-=' is not
supported.
.IP

.TP
\fBIGNORE_JOBS\fR
Ignore currently running jobs when creating the reservation.
This can be especially useful when reserving all nodes in the system
for maintenance.
.IP

.TP
\fBLICENSE_ONLY\fR
See \fIANY_NODES\fR.
.IP

.TP
\fBMAINT\fR
Maintenance mode, receives special accounting treatment.
This reservation is permitted to use resources that are already in another
reservation.
.IP

.TP
\fBMAGNETIC\fR
This flag allows jobs to be considered for this reservation even if they didn't
request it.
.IP

.TP
\fBNO_HOLD_JOBS_AFTER\fR
By default, when a reservation ends the reservation request will be removed from
any pending jobs submitted to the reservation and will be put into a held state.
Use this flag to let jobs run outside of the reservation after the reservation
is gone. Flag removal with '\-=' is not supported.
.IP

.TP
\fBOVERLAP\fR
This reservation can be allocated resources that are already in another
reservation. Flag removal with '\-=' is not supported.
.IP

.TP
\fBPART_NODES\fR
This flag can be used to reserve all nodes within the specified
partition.  PartitionName and Nodes=ALL must be specified with this flag.
.IP

.TP
\fBPURGE_COMP\fR[=<\fItimespec\fR>]
Purge the reservation if it is ever idle for timespec (no jobs associated with
it).  If timespec isn't given then 5 minutes is the default.
Valid timespec formats are minutes, minutes:seconds,
hours:minutes:seconds, days\-hours, days\-hours:minutes,
days\-hours:minutes:seconds.  Time resolution is one minute and
second values are rounded up to the next minute. Output format is always
[days\-]hours:minutes:seconds.
.IP

.TP
\fBREPLACE\fR
Nodes which are DOWN, DRAINED, or allocated to jobs are automatically
replenished using idle resources.
This option can be used to maintain a constant number of idle resources
available for pending jobs (subject to availability of idle resources).
This should be used with the \fINodeCnt\fP reservation option; do not identify
specific nodes to be included in the reservation. Flag removal with '\-=' is
not supported.

\fBNOTE\fR: Removing a node from the cluster while in a reservation with the
\fIREPLACE\fR flag will not cause it to be replaced.
.IP

.TP
\fBREPLACE_DOWN\fR
Nodes which are DOWN or DRAINED are automatically replenished using idle resources.
This option can be used to maintain a constant sized pool of resources
available for pending jobs (subject to availability of idle resources).
This should be used with the \fINodeCnt\fP reservation option; do not identify
specific nodes to be included in the reservation. Flag removal with '\-=' is
not supported.

\fBNOTE\fR: Removing a node from the cluster while in a reservation with the
\fIREPLACE_DOWN\fR flag will not cause it to be replaced.
.IP

.TP
\fBSPEC_NODES\fR
Reservation is for specific nodes (output only).
.IP

.TP
\fBSTATIC_ALLOC\fR
Make it so after the nodes are selected for a reservation they don't
change.  Without this option when nodes are selected for a reservation
and one goes down the reservation will select a new node to fill the spot.
.IP

.TP
\fBTIME_FLOAT\fR
The reservation start time is relative to the current time and moves forward
through time (e.g. a StartTime=now+10minutes will always be 10 minutes in the
future). Repeating (e.g. DAILY) floating reservations are not supported. Flag
cannot be added to or removed from an existing reservation.
.IP

.TP
\fBWEEKDAY\fR
Repeat the reservation at the same time on every weekday (Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday).
.IP

.TP
\fBWEEKEND\fR
Repeat the reservation at the same time on every weekend day (Saturday and
Sunday).
.IP

.TP
\fBWEEKLY\fR
Repeat the reservation at the same time every week.
.RE
.IP

.TP
\fBFeatures\fR=<\fIfeatures\fR>
Set the reservation's required node features. Multiple values
may be "&" separated if all features are required (AND operation) or
separated by "|" if any of the specified features are required (OR operation).
Parenthesis are also supported for features to be ANDed together with counts
of nodes having the specified features.
For example "\fBFeatures=[(knl&a2a&flat)*4&haswell*2]"\fR indicates the
advanced reservation should include 4 nodes with ALL of the features "knl",
"a2a", and "flat" plus 2 nodes with the feature "haswell".

Value may be cleared with blank data value, "Features=".
.IP

.TP
\fBGroups\fR=<\fIgroup list\fR>
List of groups permitted to use the reserved nodes, for example
"Group=bio,chem".
A new reservation must specify Users or Groups and/or Accounts.
If both Users/Groups and Accounts are specified, a job must match both in order
to use the reservation.
Unlike users groups do not allow denied access to reservations.
You can add or remove individual groups from an existing reservation by
using the update command and adding a '+' or '\-' sign before the '=' sign.
NOTE: Groups and Users are mutually exclusive in reservations, if you want to
switch between the 2 you must update the reservation with a group='' or user=''
and fill in the opposite with the appropriate setting.
.IP

.TP
\fBSkip\fR
Used on a reoccurring reservation, skip to the next reservation iteration.
\fBNOTE\fR: Only available for update.
.IP

.TP
\fBUsers\fR=<\fIuser list\fR>
List of users permitted to use the reserved nodes, for example
"User=jones1,smith2".
A new reservation must specify Users or Groups and/or Accounts.
If both Users/Groups and Accounts are specified, a job must match both in order
to use the reservation.
Users can also be denied access to reservations by preceding all of the
user names with '\-'. Alternately precede the equal sign with '\-'.
For example, "User=\-jones1,\-smith2" or "User\-=jones1,smith2"
will permit any user except jones1 and smith2 to use the reservation.
You can add or remove individual users from an existing reservation by
using the update command and adding a '+' or '\-' sign before the '=' sign.
If users are denied access to a reservation (user name preceded by a '\-'),
then all other users are implicitly allowed to use the reservation and it is
not possible to also explicitly specify allowed users.
NOTE: Groups and Users are mutually exclusive in reservations, if you want to
switch between the 2 you must update the reservation with a group='' or user=''
and fill in the opposite with the appropriate setting.
.IP

.TP
\fBTRES\fR=<\fItres_spec\fR>
Comma\-separated list of TRES required for the reservation. Current supported
TRES types with reservations are: CPU, Node, License and BB. CPU and Node
follow the same format as CoreCnt and NodeCnt parameters respectively.
License names can be followed by an equal '=' and a count:

License/<name1>=<count1>[,License/<name2>=<count2>,...]

BurstBuffer can be specified in a similar way as BurstBuffer parameter. The
only difference is that colon symbol ':' should be replaced by an equal '='
in order to follow the TRES format.

Some examples of TRES valid specifications:

TRES=cpu=5,bb/cray=4,license/iop1=1,license/iop2=3

TRES=node=5k,license/iop1=2

As specified in CoreCnt, if a nodelist is specified, cpu can be an array
of core numbers by node:
nodes=compute[1\-3] TRES=cpu=2,2,1,bb/cray=4,license/iop1=2

Please note that CPU, Node, License and BB can override CoreCnt, NodeCnt,
Licenses and BurstBuffer parameters respectively.  Also CPU represents
CoreCnt, in a reservation and will be adjusted if you have threads per
core on your nodes.

Note that a reservation that contains nodes or cores is associated with
one partition, and can't span resources over multiple partitions.
The only exception from this is when
the reservation is created with explicitly requested nodes.
.IP

.SH "PERFORMANCE"
.PP
Executing \fBscontrol\fR sends a remote procedure call to \fBslurmctld\fR. If
enough calls from \fBscontrol\fR or other Slurm client commands that send remote
procedure calls to the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon come in at once, it can result in
a degradation of performance of the \fBslurmctld\fR daemon, possibly resulting
in a denial of service.
.PP
Do not run \fBscontrol\fR or other Slurm client commands that send remote
procedure calls to \fBslurmctld\fR from loops in shell scripts or other
programs. Ensure that programs limit calls to \fBscontrol\fR to the minimum
necessary for the information you are trying to gather.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
Some \fBscontrol\fR options may
be set via environment variables. These environment variables,
along with their corresponding options, are listed below. (Note:
Command line options will always override these settings.)

.TP 20
\fBSCONTROL_ALL\fR
\fB\-a, \-\-all\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSCONTROL_FEDERATION\fR
\fB\-\-federation\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSCONTROL_FUTURE\fR
\fB\-F, \-\-future\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSCONTROL_LOCAL\fR
\fB\-\-local\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSCONTROL_SIBLING\fR
\fB\-\-sibling\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_BITSTR_LEN\fR
Specifies the string length to be used for holding a job array's task ID
expression.
The default value is 64 bytes.
A value of 0 will print the full expression with any length required.
Larger values may adversely impact the application performance.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CLUSTERS\fR
Same as \fB\-\-clusters\fR
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CONF\fR
The location of the Slurm configuration file.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_CONF_OUT\fR
When running 'write config', the location of the Slurm configuration file to be
written.
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_TIME_FORMAT\fR
Specify the format used to report time stamps. A value of \fIstandard\fR, the
default value, generates output in the form "year\-month\-dateThour:minute:second".
A value of \fIrelative\fR returns only "hour:minute:second" if the current day.
For other dates in the current year it prints the "hour:minute" preceded by
"Tomorr" (tomorrow), "Ystday" (yesterday), the name of the day for the coming
week (e.g. "Mon", "Tue", etc.), otherwise the date (e.g. "25 Apr").
For other years it returns a date month and year without a time (e.g.
"6 Jun 2012"). All of the time stamps use a 24 hour format.

A valid strftime() format can also be specified. For example, a value of
"%a %T" will report the day of the week and a time stamp (e.g. "Mon 12:34:56").
.IP

.TP
\fBSLURM_TOPO_LEN\fR
Specify the maximum size of the line when printing Topology. If not set, the
default value is unlimited.
.IP

.SH "AUTHORIZATION"

When using SlurmDBD, users who have an AdminLevel defined (Operator
or Admin) and users who are account coordinators are given the
authority to view and modify jobs, reservations, nodes, etc., as
defined in the following table \- regardless of whether a PrivateData
restriction has been defined in the slurm.conf file.

.br
\fBscontrol show job(s):       \fR Admin, Operator, Coordinator
.br
\fBscontrol update job:        \fR Admin, Operator, Coordinator
.br
\fBscontrol requeue:           \fR Admin, Operator, Coordinator
.br
\fBscontrol show step(s):      \fR Admin, Operator, Coordinator
.br
\fBscontrol update step:       \fR Admin, Operator, Coordinator
.br
.sp
\fBscontrol show node:         \fR Admin, Operator
.br
\fBscontrol update node:       \fR Admin
.br
.sp
\fBscontrol create partition:  \fR Admin
.br
\fBscontrol show partition:    \fR Admin, Operator
.br
\fBscontrol update partition:  \fR Admin
.br
\fBscontrol delete partition:  \fR Admin
.br
.sp
\fBscontrol create reservation:\fR Admin, Operator
.br
\fBscontrol show reservation:  \fR Admin, Operator
.br
\fBscontrol update reservation:\fR Admin, Operator
.br
\fBscontrol delete reservation:\fR Admin, Operator
.br
.sp
\fBscontrol reconfig:          \fR Admin
.br
\fBscontrol shutdown:          \fR Admin
.br
\fBscontrol takeover:          \fR Admin
.br

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.nf
$ scontrol
scontrol: show part debug
PartitionName=debug
   AllocNodes=ALL AllowGroups=ALL Default=YES
   DefaultTime=NONE DisableRootJobs=NO Hidden=NO
   MaxNodes=UNLIMITED MaxTime=UNLIMITED MinNodes=1
   Nodes=snowflake[0\-48]
   Priority=1 RootOnly=NO OverSubscribe=YES:4
   State=UP TotalCPUs=694 TotalNodes=49
scontrol: update PartitionName=debug MaxTime=60:00 MaxNodes=4
scontrol: show job 71701
JobId=71701 Name=hostname
   UserId=da(1000) GroupId=da(1000)
   Priority=66264 Account=none QOS=normal WCKey=*123
   JobState=COMPLETED Reason=None Dependency=(null)
   TimeLimit=UNLIMITED Requeue=1 Restarts=0 BatchFlag=0 ExitCode=0:0
   SubmitTime=2010\-01\-05T10:58:40 EligibleTime=2010\-01\-05T10:58:40
   StartTime=2010\-01\-05T10:58:40 EndTime=2010\-01\-05T10:58:40
   SuspendTime=None SecsPreSuspend=0
   Partition=debug AllocNode:Sid=snowflake:4702
   ReqNodeList=(null) ExcNodeList=(null)
   NodeList=snowflake0
   NumNodes=1 NumCPUs=10 CPUs/Task=2 ReqS:C:T=1:1:1
   MinCPUsNode=2 MinMemoryNode=0 MinTmpDiskNode=0
   Features=(null) Reservation=(null)
   OverSubscribe=OK Contiguous=0 Licenses=(null) Network=(null)
scontrol: update JobId=71701 TimeLimit=30:00 Priority=500
scontrol: show hostnames tux[1\-3]
tux1
tux2
tux3
scontrol: create res StartTime=2009\-04\-01T08:00:00 Duration=5:00:00 Users=dbremer NodeCnt=10
Reservation created: dbremer_1
scontrol: update Reservation=dbremer_1 Flags=Maint NodeCnt=20
scontrol: delete Reservation=dbremer_1
scontrol: quit
.fi

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002\-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.br
Copyright (C) 2008\-2010 Lawrence Livermore National Security.
.br
Copyright (C) 2010\-2022 SchedMD LLC.
.LP
This file is part of Slurm, a resource management program.
For details, see <https://slurm.schedmd.com/>.
.LP
Slurm is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
Slurm is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "FILES"
.LP
/etc/slurm.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBscancel\fR(1), \fBsinfo\fR(1), \fBsqueue\fR(1),
\fBslurm_create_partition\fR (3),
\fBslurm_delete_partition\fR (3),
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR (3),
\fBslurm_load_jobs\fR (3), \fBslurm_load_node\fR (3),
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR (3),
\fBslurm_reconfigure\fR (3),  \fBslurm_requeue\fR (3),
\fBslurm_resume\fR (3),
\fBslurm_shutdown\fR (3), \fBslurm_suspend\fR (3),
\fBslurm_takeover\fR (3),
\fBslurm_update_job\fR (3), \fBslurm_update_node\fR (3),
\fBslurm_update_partition\fR (3),
\fBslurm.conf\fR(5), \fBslurmctld\fR(8)
