.TH SLURMCTLD "1" "July 2002" "slurmctld 0.1" "Slurm components"
.SH "NAME"
slurmctld \- The central management daemon of Slurm.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBslurmctld\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBslurmctld\fR is the central management daemon of Slurm. It monitors all other 
Slurm daemons and resources, accepts work (jobs), and allocates resources to 
those jobs. Given the critical functionality of \fBslurmctld\fR, there may 
be a backup server to assume these functions in the event that the primary 
server fails. 
.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-e <errlev>\fR
Set stderr logging to the specified level.
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Help; print a brief summary of command options.
.TP
\fB-f <file>\fR
Read configuration from the specified file.
.TP
\fB-l <errlev>\fR
Set logfile logging to the specified level.
.TP
\fB-s <errlev>\fR
Set syslog logging to the specified level.
.TP
ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIerrlev\fP
The level of error to be reported, an integer value between 0 and 7. 
Larger numbers result in more logging information. The numbers represent 
the following levels of logging:
.br
\fB0\fR
No logging of any events
.br
\fB1\fR
Log fatal errors only
.br
\fB2\fR
Log all errors
.br
\fB3\fR
Log informational messages
.br
\fB4\fR
Verbose logging of informational message
.br
\fB5,6,7\fR
Log highly detailed debugging messages
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
Pathname of a configuration file to use.
.SH "NOTES"
It may be useful to experiment with different \fBslurmctld\fR specific 
configuration parameters using a distinct configuration file. However, 
this special configuration file will not be recognized by \fBslurmd\fR 
or the Slurm programs. If you desire changing communication ports, 
the location of the temporary file system, or other parameters used 
by other Slurm components, change the common configuration file.

