.TH SQUEUE "1" "January 2003" "squeue 0.1" "Slurm components"

.SH "NAME"
squeue \- Used to view information of jobs located in the scheduling queue.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsqueue\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR...] 

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBsqueue\fR is used to view job and job step information for jobs managed by 
\fBslurmctld\fR. 

.TP
OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message describing the usage of \fBsqueue\fR.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR
Specify the information to be displayed.  
The default format for jobs is "%.7i%9P%8j%8u%2t%.7l%.4p%#N", where "#" limits 
output to the window size.
If the \fB\-\-long\fR option is specified, the default job format is 
"%.7i%9P%8j%8u%8T%.7l%.10p%11S%11e%N".
The default format for job steps is "%.10i%9P%8u%11S%#N", where "#" limits 
output to the window size. 
If the \fB\-\-long\fR option is specified, the default job step format 
is "%.10i%9P%8u%11S%N".

The field specifications available include: 
.br
\fB%b\fR Time at which the job began execution
.br
\fB%c\fR Minimum number of CPUs (processors) requested by the job
.br
\fB%C\fR Number of CPUs (processors) allocated to the job or job step
.br
\fB%d\fR Minimum size of temporary disk space (in MB) requested by the job
.br
\fB%e\fR Time at which the job ended or is expected to end (based upon its time
limit)
.br
\fB%f\fR Features required by the job
.br
\fB%h\fR Can the nodes allocated to the job be shared with other jobs
.br
\fB%i\fR Job or job step id
.br
\fB%j\fR Job name
.br
\fB%l\fR Time limit of the job (in minutes)
.br
\fB%m\fR Minimum size of memory (in MB) requested by the job
.br
\fB%n\fR List of node names explicitly requested by the job
.br
\fB%N\fR List of nodes allocated to the job or job step
.br
\fB%o\fR Minimum number of nodes requested by the job
.br
\fB%O\fR Are contiguous nodes requested by the job
.br
\fB%p\fR Priority of the job (converted to a floating point number between 0.0 and 1.0
.br
\fB%P\fR Partition of the job or job step
.br
\fB%S\fR Start time of the job or job step
.br
\fB%t\fR Job state, compact form
.br
\fB%T\fR Job state, extended form
.br
\fB%U\fR User id
.br
\fB%u\fR User name
.br
\fB%.<*>\fR right justification of the field
.br 
\fB%<Number><*>\fR size of field
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Display all job information.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-iterate\fR
Repeatedly gather and report the requested information at the interval
specified (in seconds).
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-jobs\fR
Specify the jobs to view.  This takes a comma separated list of jobs to view.
Defaults to all jobs.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-job-steps\fR
Specify the job steps to view.  This takes a comma separated list of job steps
to view in the format "job_id.step_id". Defaults to all job steps.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Report more of the available information for the selected jobs or job steps, 
subject to any constraints specified.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-partition\fR
Specify the partitions of the jobs or steps to view. Accepts a comma separated 
list of partition names.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR
Specifies the sorting order of job's or job step's records for printing. 
Accepts a comma separated list of field identifiers using the single letter 
codes used for output formatting. For example, "\-\-sort=P,U" will sort the
records by partition name then by user id. 
The default sorting order for jobs is job state then priority. 
The default sorting order for job steps is partition name.
Note that sorting is not supported for all fields at this time.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-states\fR
Specify the states of jobs to view.  Accepts a comma separated list of
state names or "all". If "all" is specified then jobs of all states will be 
reported. If no state is specified, pending and running jobs are reported.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-users\fR
Specifies a comma separated list of users whose jobs or job steps are to be
reported.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Report details of squeues actions.


.SH "EXAMPLES"
.eo
Print the jobs scheduled in the debug partition and in the 
completed state in the format with six right justified digits for 
the job id followed by the priority with an arbitrary fields size:
.br
# squeue -p debug -t C -o "%.6i%p"
.br
 JobId Prio 
.br
 65543 99993 
.br
 65544 99992 
.br
 65545 99991 
.ec

.eo
Print the job steps in the debug partition sorted by user:
.br
# squeue -s -p debug -S u
.br
 StepId     Partition   User      StartTime     Nodes
.br
 65552.1    debug       alice     10/14-11:02   dev[1-4]
.br
 65562.2    debug       bob       10/14-11:54   dev22
.br
 65550.1    debug       candice   10/14-11:18   dev[6-12]
.ec

.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (C) 2002 The Regents of the University of California.
Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
UCRL-CODE-2002-040.
.LP
This file is part of SLURM, a resource management program.
For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/slurm/>.
.LP
SLURM is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.
.LP
SLURM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBslurm_load_ctl_conf\fR(3), \fBslurm_load_jobs\fR(3),
\fBslurm_load_node\fR(3), 
\fBslurm_load_partitions\fR(3)
